THE SOURCE
2025–26 Student Handbook
200 Bloomfield Avenue, West Hartford, CT 06117
P: 860.768.4418 I E: lpward@hartford.edu I hartford.edu
LAWRENCE P. WARD, PRESIDENT
Dear Students,
Welcome to the University of Hartford. I’m so glad you’re here for this exciting chapter of your life.
Although this is only my second year as president, I already know what a special place UHart is—
and I’m thrilled you’ve chosen to make it your home. Last year taught me just how talented, driven,
and supportive our students are—and I can’t wait for you to experience that for yourself.
Your college experience will be one of the most transformative times of your life. Take every
opportunity to learn, explore, and connect. Try something new, meet people with different
perspectives, and challenge yourself to grow. These choices will shape not only your education but
also the kind of person and leader you become.
Every faculty and staff member at UHart is here to support your success. Many have contributed to
The Source, a comprehensive guide to resources, responsibilities, and opportunities to help you
navigate your first year and beyond.
I look forward to meeting you on campus and seeing all the ways you’ll make your mark on our
community.
Best wishes,
Lawrence P. Ward, EdD
President
Table of Contents
Introduction
• University of Hartford Mission Statement
• University Values Statement
• Inclusive Excellence
• Board of Regents
• Graduate and Undergraduate Student Representatives
• Personal Rights and Freedoms
• Peaceable Assembly and Student Demonstrations
University Policies and Guidelines
• Alcohol Policy
• Alternative Education and Service Format Policy
• Campus Access Policy
• Chalking Policy
• Classroom Recording Policy
• Controlled Substance (Drug) Policy
• Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy
• Gambling Policy
• Good Samaritan and Amnesty Policy
• Hazing Policy
• No Contact Order Policy
• Painting the Anchor
• Residential Life Guest Policy
• Solicitation & Posting Policy
• Smoking Guidelines
• University Procedures for External Speakers and Campus Events
• Weapons Guidelines
Federal Government Policies
• FERPA
• Title VI
• Section 504
University Services and Resources
• The Allan Center for Career and Professional Development
• Cultural Events and Opportunities
• Campus Climate Educational Response Team (CCERT)
• Dining Services
• Division of Graduate & Professional Studies
• Emergency Closing Information
• Harrison Libraries
• International Center
• Mail Services
• Phone Directory
• Public Safety
• Red Key Society
• Student Financial Aid
• Veterans Affairs
Division of Student Success
• Access Ability Services
• Athletics & Recreation
• Center for Student Success
• Counseling and Psychological Services
• Health Services
• Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
- The Nosh food pantry
Office of Inclusive Excellence and Belonging: Campus Religious Life
Residential Life Overview
- Residential Life Services
- Housing Information
- Housing Application
- Housing Agreement
- Residential Life Policies
• Student Academic Conduct
• Student Code of Conduct
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
INTRODUCTION
About The Source
The Source, the University of Hartford’s graduate and undergraduate student handbook, is issued by the Office of the Dean of Students
and is published by the University of Hartford to introduce students to the opportunities, services, and regulations relating to life at the
University.
The Source is a ‘living’ document and as such, can be changed with or without notice. It is the responsibility of each student, both
graduate and undergraduate, to be familiar with the Student Code of Conduct and University policies contained in The Source, as well as
any other regulations relating to life at the University, including those contained in The Manual of Academic Policies and Procedures
(MAPP).
In the unlikely event that the contents of The Source differ from The MAPP, The MAPP will take precedence. The University reserves the
right to make changes in university regulations, policies, procedures, and other matters as it deems necessary.
Please note that not all the information in The Source is equally applicable to both graduate and undergraduate students. If a student has
questions about any of the services or policies, please call the office responsible for clarification.
If you need assistance with any part of thisstudent handbook, please contact the Dean of Students Office (860) 768-4285.
University of Hartford Mission Statement
Dedicated to learning, personal growth, knowledge creation and the betterment of society, the University engages students in
acquiring the knowledge, skills, and values necessary to thrive in and contribute to a pluralistic, complex world.
University Values Statement
At the University of Hartford, we are committed to community. We are an academic community that values integrity, curiosity,
creativity, excellence, responsibility, and accomplishment. Enriched by our diversity and our engagement with one another, we take
pride in our shared traditions and experiences. We are dedicated to building a culture that respects all its members and celebrates
their contributions as we work together to strengthen our community.
Commitment to Inclusive Excellence
As an institution of higher learning, the University of Hartford strives to be more than merely a mirror of the larger society; it should
foster learning and encourage the personal growth of students, faculty, and staff in an environment that promotes and celebrates
diversity in all of its forms regardless of identifying factors including but not limited to race, sex, age, religion, national origin,
socioeconomic status, physical and learning differences, sexual orientation, gender or gender identity.
Accordingly, our commitment is to:
• Foster an inclusive, equitable, just, and caring community where the unique identities of each person are fully appreciated,
respected, and celebrated;
• Engage in civil discourse that values diverse intellectual perspectives;
• Cultivate a campus community reflective of the intersectionality of the larger society while maintaining an environment of
safety and respect where all members experience a sense of belonging.
• Institutionally, we stand against acts of hate, intimidation, discrimination, bigotry, violence, and harassment of any kind;
• Uphold the values of the institution, so that all our members are treated with dignity and respect;
Our commitment to Inclusive Excellence and Belonging is a strength that results in a vibrant and more engaged campus culture.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Civility Statement
As a university, we foster a climate of civility; as members of our community, we engage with one another, maintaining the highest
standard of ethical, inclusive, and empathetic behaviors. We assume responsibility for our words, choices, and actions and their impact
on others as we expect other members of the community will do the same. Our community is a place where people can have a free
and open exchange of diverse ideas and disagree respectfully.
A Brief History of the University of Hartford
Now in its sixth decade, the University of Hartford sits proudly on a 350-acre campus that once stood as the city of Hartford’s last
working farm.
The University began as a commuter school during the post-World War II boom when returning soldiers were looking for an education
financed by the G.I. Bill®
. The movers and shakers of Hartford recognized a need for a university and brought together three small
schools housed in buildings spread across the city, including the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art and the Hartford YMCA.
Unlike most private New England colleges, the University of Hartford has never been just a liberal arts institution. From the outset, it
has offered courses in electronics, engineering, technology, and education along with strong programs in music, the visual arts, and the
arts and sciences. Today, it is known for excellence in the visual and performing arts, engineering, and business; small classes; and its
focus on mentoring all students.
The University has always been coed and open to all students, regardless of their background. Designed initially to meet the needs of
Hartford residents, it has stayed true to the founders’ ideals but greatly surpassed its modest goals. Its mission today is to educate
students as citizens of the world, encouraging them to study abroad, get involved in community service, and take responsibility for the
planet and their futures.
From the time that then Governor Abraham Ribicoff signed the bill granting the University of Hartford its charter in February 1957,
visionary leaders have guided the institution. Vincent Brown Coffin, a well-known and influential insurance executive, was named the
first chancellor of the University in 1958. Archibald Woodruff followed in 1967, and his title was changed to president in 1970. Stephen
Joel Trachtenberg took up the mantle in 1977, followed by Humphrey Tonkin in 1989, Walter Harrison in 1998, Greg Woodward in
2017, and Lawrence P. Ward in 2024. Each administration has carefully guided the University and helped it adapt to changing times
while keeping it on course financially and academically.
Today
Since its founding in 1957, the University of Hartford has attracted students and faculty who change the world in meaningful ways.
UHart is a diverse institution with a global reach, as students from approximately 50 countries come to study at one of its seven
distinctive schools and colleges every year.
The national and global contributions of University of Hartford alumni — a community of more than 80,000 and counting — reflect the
wide range of academic disciplines offered by the institution’s schools and colleges. UHart graduates are engineers, scientists,
professional athletes, and performing artists. They are health professionals, journalists, educators, and entrepreneurs.
The University of Hartford has been guiding the purpose and passion of students for over six decades. On our campus, alongside
Connecticut’s capital city, approximately 4,000 undergraduate and 1,900 graduate students representing 49 states, and 44 countries
come together for a common purpose: to collaborate across different disciplines, diversify perspectives, and broaden worldviews.
We’re a four-year private University focused on advancing the public good through meaningful connections within our communities.
Our unique approach to comprehensive education gives us the critical perspectives that lead to impactful change, regionally and
beyond. With degree programs spanning the arts, humanities, business, engineering and technology, education, and health
professions, we focus on doing the work that matters.
Schools and Colleges of the University
• Barney School of Business
• College of Arts and Sciences
• College of Education, Nursing and Health Professions
• College of Engineering, Technology, and Architecture
• Hartford Art School
• Hillyer College of Arts and Sciences
• The Hartt School
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Board of Regents
The governing body of the University of Hartford, the Board of Regents, includes approximately 30 Regents who have been selected for
their special talents, vision, and their sense of civic responsibility. The board members represent the fields of law, business and
industry, insurance, education, publishing, banking, religion, and the arts, reflecting a variety as diverse as the University itself. Three
students (two undergraduates and one graduate) serve as Student Representatives. The undergraduate student representatives make
periodic reports to the student body through the Student Government Association.
Graduate and Undergraduate Student Representatives
Each year, during the late spring, two students and one alternate are selected from the undergraduate student body and one student
from the graduate student body to present students’ views to the University Board of Regents. These individuals are chosen by a
committee comprising students and members of the University Board of Regents, faculty, and staff. In addition to attending Board of
Regents meetings, the students are members of the Student Government Association senate. They attend various committee meetings
concerning academic affairs, Division of Student Success, physical plant, and academic affairs. The student representatives’
responsibilities also include attending executive board meetings of the Student Government Association and organizing opportunities
for the University Regents to meet with students.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
UNIVERSITY SERVICES AND RESOURCES
The Allan Center for Career and Professional Development
The Allan Center for Career and Professional Development provides robust and dynamic career programming to matriculated students
and recent graduates as they explore fields of study, experiential education opportunities and eventually the transition to career or
post graduate studies.
The Career Studio is located in Gengras Student Union, Room 203. To learn more about career programs and events, and how our
dedicated staff can support your career planning, visit our website at: https://www.hartford.edu/student-life/career-services/
Banking Services on Campus
A Bank of AmericaATM is located on the second floor in Gengras Student Union (in the main lobby).
Box Office
The University of Hartford Box Office, located at Lincoln Theater, handles tickets for all University of Hartford performing art events.
The box office is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., and one hour prior to each performance. For ticket information,
call 860.768.4228 or 800.274.8587.
Campus Climate Educational Response Team (CCERT)
The University of Hartford Campus Climate Education Response Team (CCERT) is a group of faculty, staff and students
who provide support and resources to members of the campus community who may have experienced harm based on their identity or
an experience that they feel negatively impacts the campus climate. CCERT is provided to assist those who feel impacted by campus
climate concerns and to promote respect and understanding among members of the University community. CCERT is not a
disciplinary body. Other offices on campus are responsible for disciplinary proceedings. UHart community members can fill out a report
to access support from CCERT. Check out the CCERT website for more information.
Cultural Events and Opportunities
Guest Lectures
The University sponsors many lectures on a range of topics throughout the year. Check the University’s calendar of events or bookmark
UNotes Daily.
The Hartt School
The Hartt School is the internationally acclaimed performing arts conservatory of the University of Hartford with innovative programs
in music, dance, and theatre. With more than 400 concerts, recitals, plays, master classes, dance performances, and musical theatre
productions by students, faculty, and guest artists every year, performance is central to Hartt’s curriculum. A complete Hartt School
performance schedule is available online. Most performances are open to students without charge or at a reduced rate when a valid
IDs presented at the box office. Information is also available by calling the University Box Office at 860.768.4228.
Lincoln Theater
Lincoln Theater is the University of Hartford’s largest venue for lectures and music, dance, and theatre performances. The theater plays
a crucial role in providing entertainment for the surrounding Greater Hartford community. Since its dedication in 1978, Lincoln Theater
has brought the University and surrounding community the opportunity to see a wide array of people and programs.
Millard Auditorium
Millard Auditorium is one of the performance venues on the main University of Hartford campus. The intimate 428-seat house is used
for symphonies, chamber music concerts, solo recitals, and lectures. Millard has computerized sound and lighting equipment, a 50-foot
proscenium arch with a stage depth of 32 feet, a 22 line-set fly, and a full orchestra pit.
Mort and Irma Handel Performing Arts Center (HPAC)
All courses for dance and theatre majors are taught at the Mort and Irma Handel Performing Arts Center, which opened in September
2008. This 55,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art facility has five dance studios, four theatre rehearsal studios, three vocal studios, and
two black box theatres—the 300-seat Edward C. and Ann T. Roberts Foundation Black Box Theater and the 100-seat McCray Black Box
Theater, given through the generosity of Kent ‘51 and Susan McCray. Each theater has Robbins sprung floors and a state-of-the-art
computerized light board and sound equipment. Virtually any stage configuration is possible in these venues, providing designers,
directors, and choreographers complete flexibility for innovation. Many Theatre and
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Dance Divisions performances, Hartt Community Dance Division performances, plus recitals, lectures, and concerts, are held in these
venues each year.
For information, call the University Box Office at 860.768.4228.
Dining Services
The University of Hartford’s Dining program offers quality, variety, convenience, and flexibility. At the University Commons, our all-youcare-to-enjoy location, students can dine for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The retail locations on campus accept dining dollars that are
attached to a student’s plan, cash, Hawk Cash, or credit/debit. For added flexibility, students with meal plans that have meal equivalency
may use a meal equivalency at all locations except the Village Market or Starbucks (unless on the premium plan). Non-resident students
may choose a commuter meal plan.
Meal plans are required for residential students and recommended for non-resident students. To see all meal plan information go to:
Meal Plans - University of Hartford
During scheduled University breaks HawkCASH, cash, or credit cards are all accepted.
For more dining information, please visit http://www.hartford.campusdish.com
Note: Students may upgrade their meal plans anytime throughout the semester. However, students only have the first two weeks of the
semester (from the first day of classes) to downgrade their meal plans. To adjust your meal plan, visit Meal Plan Upgrades - University of
Hartford (campusdish.com).
Dining Dollars
All of the meal plans offer Dining Dollars, which are accepted like cash in all of our dining locations. Students may use their Dining Dollars
account to purchase beverages, snacks, or full meals for themselves and their friends at any time. Whenever students buy a meal on
campus, the total amount of your purchase is subtracted from their Dining Dollars. Dining Dollars will carry over from fall to spring
semester. They do not carry over from one academic school year to the next. Dining Dollars can be purchased either via credit card or
added to your bursar account.
Meal Equivalency
A meal equivalency is a meal option that is offered in our retail operations. All retail locations will have meal equivalency options to
choose from, with the exception of The Village Market.
Starbucks meal equivalency is limited to Premium 7 Day All Access Meal Plan.
Meal equivalency hours include Breakfast from 7:30am-10:30am, Lunch 11am-4:30pm, and Dinner 4:30pm-10pm. Students are only
allowed to use one meal equivalency per meal period. New meal equivalency options and LTO meal equivalency options are available.
HawkCASH
HawkCASH is accepted at all dining locations. Additionally, HawkCASH may be used for a variety of restaurants off campus. It is also be
used at vending machines, the bookstore, health services, and for making copies and printing on campus.
Please note: All resident students must purchase a meal plan. First Year students may choose from the Premium 7 Day All Access, Weekly
14, or 7 Day All Access Plans. The Weekly 10 Plan is only available to students living in Park River or the Village. The commuter meal plans
are available to residential students only in addition to their residential meal plan. Commuter students have the option to purchase any
meal plan. For additional information or assistance in making a selection, see https://hartford.campusdish.com/ and try the Find Your Fit
to make your selection easier.
Students can learn more information about specific offerings, meal plans etc. via the Dining Services website:
https://hartford.campusdish.com/
Kosher Kitchen
Located in University Commons, the Kosher Kitchen follows all the religious guidelines and is staffed by a certified mashgiach. Kosher
meals are available at lunch Monday through Friday and at dinner Monday through Thursday during the semester (holiday closings and
shutdown periods not included). Please visit https://hartford.campusdish.com/ for further information.
Stress Less Zone (located in the University Commons)
Students with an allergy may use the Stress Less Zone. This pantry located in Commons contains prepackaged food, a microwave, and
more that is allergen friendly and contains an ingredient list. To obtain access to the panty, students must submit their medical
documentation showing evidence of a food allergy to the assistant vice president for student success. All other allergen information can
be found on: Health & Wellness - University of Hartford.
Gluten-Free Solutions
There are made without gluten options throughout the entire campus. A daily menu is provided on the dining services website:
https://hartford.campusdish.com/ that denotes the made without gluten items for the Commons.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Vegan and Vegetarian Solutions
There are vegan and vegetarian options throughout the entire campus. A daily menu is provided on the dining services website:
https://hartford.campusdish.com/ that denotes the vegan and vegetarian items for the Commons.
Retail Restaurants
There are several retail locations on campus including the Gengras Cafe, Hawk’s Nest, Starbucks, The Backstage Café, and the Village
Market. More information about location, hours of operation and offerings can be found on the Dining Services website:
https://hartford.campusdish.com/
Dining Committee
The dining committee serves as a guest-oriented monitor of dining services including services at a number of retail/dining locations on
campus. Students in the committee are compensated for their efforts and feedback. If interested in joining, students should contact
dining at dining@hartford.edu.
Division of Graduate and Professional Studies
The Division of Graduate and Professional Studies provides assistance to our adult learners through a broad array of programming
opportunities and a centralized location for student admission and resources. The division encompasses graduate, online, adult
academic services, continuing education, and certificate and non-credit programs to graduate level students and part-time
undergraduate students. Visit hartford.edu/gps for more details regarding office hours and contact information.
Emergency Closing Information
It is the policy of the University of Hartford to remain open during inclement weather unless and untiladetermination is made to close
based on an assessment of current and forecast conditions. Whensuch a determination is made, the University will announce either a
closing or delayed opening. Faculty and instructors are expected to follow the announced schedule and to conduct class when the
University is open.
Please note that when the campus is closed preventing a class from meeting at its scheduled time, professorsmay opt to conduct classes
or provide assignments online. Studentsshould plan to check Blackboard and their email regularly on such daysto learn of any alternate
arrangements.
Changes to the University’s operating schedule are communicated through:
1. Web Alert
The University’s Web Alert system will be activated if there is an advisory. A message will appear on the University’s home
page (www.hartford.edu) detailing the emergency announcement.
2. Telephone
Dial the University’s main number (860.768.4100 from off campus, 0 from campus residences and offices), where you will
hear the latest emergency information if the normal operating schedule has been altered.
3. Facebook and X (Formerly Twitter)
Updates are posted via Facebook (University of Hartford) and X/twitter (UofHartford).
4. Text Message Notification Service
Emergency closing alerts will be sent via text message to those cell phone numbers registered with the University as shown
in the Self-Service Center. Learn more at www.hartford.edu/alert.
5. Notice About Radio and Television
Local radio and television stations provide limited information and do not offer the complete advisory available on the
University’s website and main telephone number as described above. In addition, area radio stations now limit the amount
of airtime devoted to announcing weather-related closings and may not be reading the complete list when you are listening.
Please follow up on any announcements on TV or radio by checking the University’s website or by calling 860.768.4100.
Under most circumstances, the University will open 30 minutes prior to the next scheduled class. Faculty and staff are not to arrive on
campus prior to this announced opening time.
If it is announced that “UHart will open at 10 a.m.”:
• Faculty and staff should report to campus at, and not prior to, 10 a.m.
• Classes will begin at 10:30 a.m.
• All classes of 90 minutes or less with a start time prior to 10:30 a.m. will not meet.
• All classes and labs scheduled at or after 10:30 a.m. will be held at their normal times.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
• All classes and labs longer than 90 minutes with a start time prior to 10:30 a.m. will meet beginning at 10:30 a.m. if 50 percent
or more of the regular meeting time remains.
(A 9:30 a.m. to noon lab would meet at 10:30 a.m. because more than 50 percent of the lab time remains.)
If it is announced that “UHart will close at 2 p.m.”:
• All classes with start times at or after 2 p.m. will not be held.
• All classes in session at 2 p.m. will dismiss
• Depending on day and time, the advisory issued may contain specific information about classes beginning just prior to the time
of University closure (such as 1:30 p.m. classes in the current example)
Online Courses
Online courses at the University are taught both asynchronously and synchronously and may or may not be affected by weatherrelated closings. Students are to check with their course’s faculty member regarding assignments or classes potentially impacted by
weather related closings.
Additional Closing/Delay-related Information
For residential students, the Commons will remain open for dining during its regular hours when the University has closed due to
severe weather.
The Sports Center will follow the operating schedule of the University and will be closed to members when the University is closed. The
building will be open to residential students only.
The nature of the programs and the age of participants in the Hartt Community Division require that its closings be more closely
aligned with those of the local public-school systems and may not reflect those of the University.
The University of Hartford Magnet School and the University High School of Science and Engineering follow Hartford Public School
closing procedures.
Faculty Senate
The Faculty Senate includes representatives from each of the colleges and meets monthly to discuss and vote on curriculum and other
issues. There are several Faculty Senate committees that include student representatives. Students interested in serving on a Faculty
Senate committee or task force should call the Faculty Senate office at 860.768.4475.
Harrison Libraries
Information about collections and services is available on the Harrison Libraries’ home page. The Harrison Libraries are comprised of
two distinct libraries in the same building: Mortensen (for most academic departments) and Allen (for music, dance, theater).
Librarians host workshops and sessions on information literacy, citing sources, artificial intelligence tools, and navigating academic
research and writing.
Library phone numbers are as follows:
Mortensen Library - 860.768.4264
Allen Library - 860.768.4491
Information Technology in the Harrison Libraries
The Harrison Libraries offer workstations with PCs and Macs, and there are laptops available for short-term checkout. Selected
desktop computers have discipline-specific applications installed. With valid university ID, students can check out books, scores,
recordings, calculators, iPads, laptops, chargers, recording equipment, and many other items. All research databases, music listening
and performing arts databases, ebooks, and digital tools are accessible off-campus with standard university login credentials.
Hartford Art School Galleries
Art lovers throughout New England interact with artists and learn about their works through special programs throughout the year
offered by the Hartford Art School galleries.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
The Hartford Art School Galleries include the Joseloff Gallery, the Donald and Linda Silpe Gallery, Kaman Print Study Center, and Art on
Campus. These exhibition spaces inspire our community year-round and engage with students daily through creative visual
experiences.
Opening receptions, lectures, panel discussions, and informal gallery talks accompany many exhibitions. Students are encouraged to
join the staff as gallery monitors to gain hands-on experience and insight into the workings of a professional gallery. All Hartford Art
School galleries exhibitions are free and open to the public. Learn more at https://www.hartford.edu/academics/schoolscolleges/art/galleries/
International Center
The International Center is open Monday – Friday 8:30 am – 4:30 pm. More information can be found online at
https://www.hartford.edu/about/offices-divisions/student-affairs/international-center/.
Local Hotels
The University of Hartford welcomes numerous out-of-town visitors to campus throughout the year for a variety of special events,
including academic programs, admission events, Hawktober Weekend, Orientation, sporting events, and Commencement. UHart has
partnered with a number of local hotels and inns to offer special pricing for guests visiting campus. These properties can be viewed and
reserved online at https://www.hartford.edu/admission/visit/travel-information/local-hotels.aspx
Mail Services
Mail Services, located on the lower level (first floor room 110/111) of Gengras Student Union, provides basic services offered by the
U.S. Post Office and provides two drop boxes for mail: one for campus mail and one for U.S. mail. Window hours are Monday–Friday 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. Phone: 860-768-4210.
Off-Campus Housing: General Guidelines
If students elect to live within an off-campus neighborhood, there remains the need to respect the rules of civility within that
neighborhood. The property should be kept well maintained, and students should understand that late night parties and other late
activities are not going to be welcomed by neighbors. Violation of local noise ordinances or other regulations can result in the
revocation of the rental permit obtained by the landlord. Loss of the permit would mean the requirement to move from that residence.
In addition, be aware that towns around the University regulate the number of unrelated individuals who may occupy a single-family
home. While homeowners may wish to rent their homes to students, occupancy may require a permit to be filed by the property
owner with the local zoning authority. Ask the property owner if that permit has been obtained. If not, he/she may need to obtain one
prior to moving in.
Orientation Program
Information on student orientation can be found at hartford.edu/orientation.
To apply to be a Red Cap, please email redcap@hartford.edu. What is a Red Cap?
Red Caps are orientation student leaders who are eager to help new students, and their parents learn about life at the University of
Hartford. A Red Cap is friendly, helpful, inclusive, enthusiastic, thoughtful, and wants to promote the University and the
opportunities it has to offer.
Red Caps work during the early and late summer to welcome students and parents to the University of Hartford, engage them in
conversation and activities, and connect them to peers and University resources. Through individual conversations, group activities,
academic advising, and various programs, Red Caps help the incoming students, and their parents become familiar and comfortable
with the University. As a Red Cap, you will have the opportunity to work closely with the University's faculty and staff in an informal
setting.
Red Caps will not only become part of the orientation program, but they will also become a member of a very special community of
student leaders. Through training sessions and fun activities, Red Caps form lasting friendships and memories that will stay with
them for the rest of their lives.
Red Caps must have a cumulative GPA of 2.5 and meet other requirements as posted by the Center for Student Success.
If you have questions about becoming a Red Cap, contact: Director of Orientation in the Center for Student Success, Sean O’Donovan at
sodonovan@hartford.edu or call (860)768-5803.
Preceptor Program
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Preceptors are advanced undergraduates in any college of the University who display academic skill and manifest capacities for leadership.
They assist full-time faculty in introductory-level courses and are usually chosen individually by the professor of the course. Preceptors
complete two workshops focused on both pedagogical and ethical issues to prepare them for this important responsibility. Once in the
classroom, they play a variety of different roles, depending on the content and structure of the course, the needs of the professor, and
their own strengths and weaknesses. Some tutor students in a particular subject area or in basic study skills, some work as writing
coaches and discussion leaders, some run pre-exam review sessions, and some guide students in the lab. Preceptors exemplify
responsible University citizenship and sound academic habits, including careful preparation for class and activeclass participation.
These talented and mature undergraduates serve as role models whom beginningstudents may emulate.
Public Safety
The Department of Public Safety is dedicated to providing a campus environment in which students may pursue academic and leisure
activities as safely as possible. Officers conduct foot, vehicle, and bicycle patrols of all campus areas, including parking lots and
academic and residential facilities, responding to all complaints and requests for assistance.
All uniformed Public Safety staff are state certified as medical response technicians and provide emergency and routine first aid to the
ill or injured. One Public Safety officer handles a comfort dog, “Teddy” who is there for the well-being of students on campus. Comfort
dog “Teddy” responds to students who need him for mental health calls, as well as scheduled appointments for programs.
In addition to ensuring compliance of state, local, and federal laws, Public Safety staff enforces University policies and regulations,
including those related to the registration, parking, and operation of motor vehicles on campus. Trained investigators review all
complaints and follow up on initial reports by gathering additional facts and information relative to the complaint. Public Safety’s
community unit has the resources and skills to provide programs on a variety of topics, including personal safety, property protection,
and fire safety. Please contact the unit for specific information. Many other services are provided by the Department of Public Safety,
including escort service, registration of bicycles and other property, lost and found, jumper cable loans and/or vehicle assistance. The
department also publishes Your Car on Campus, a comprehensive pamphlet detailing University of Hartford’s parking and traffic rules,
regulations, and guidelines.
Parking on Campus
In order to park a motor vehicle in any University parking area, all students must register the vehicle with the Department of Public
Safety and obtain a current parking permit. This is done through the University of Hartford self-service portal or the Public Safety
website, https://uhparking.hartford.edu/. The permit must be purchased prior to or immediately upon bringing the vehicle to campus.
Students will be billed for the parking permit. Permits are not transferable to another person or vehicle.
Certain areas of campus are prone to flooding in heavy rains and weather events, including parking areas. The University of Hartford is
not responsible for any damage or loss of motor vehicles or personal property contained in any motor vehicle on campus. Vehicle
operators are responsible for familiarizing themselves with current parking rules and regulations. In the event of an actual or
anticipated flooding occurrence, the University reserves the right in its full discretion to cause the removal, by towing, of vehicles. It is
understood and agreed by vehicle operators that the University’s right to tow parked vehicles is hereby noticed to vehicle operators
and no notice of the University’s right to tow parked vehicles by signage need be posted. All costs of the towing of parked vehicles
shall be borne by vehicle operators.
If, for any reason, students must operate a motor vehicle not displaying a University of Hartford parking permit, they must post the
vehicle online through the University of Hartford’s self-service portal or immediately upon arriving on campus at the Department of
Public Safety office. Students must bring their valid vehicle registration and ID to the Public safety office when registering the vehicle.
Commuters who alternate the use of two vehicles may obtain a permit for the second vehicle at a reduced rate upon verification of
ownership.
All students registering vehicles for parking online with Public Safety are directed to the electronic version of Your Car on Campus
which is a brochure of the rules and regulations governing parking, available parking lots, and operating a vehicle on campus. It is
recommended that a copy of the brochure be printed for reference when the parking agreement is signed electronically. Please note
that the University of Hartford is primarily a pedestrian community, and Connecticut state law dictates that pedestrians have the right
of way.
Public Safety staff joins in welcoming you to the University of Hartford and wishes you a safe and enjoyable campus experience. If you
have any questions, please contact the Department of Public Safety at 860.768.7985.
LiveSafe Mobile App
LiveSafe is a free mobile app designed to prevent crime and enable better incident response. Its core features include quick tip
submission via text with picture and video attachments (including the option to stay anonymous), live chat with public safety officials,
fast access to emergency phone numbers that initiate location tracking when called, a comprehensive safety map that pinpoints
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
incidents on or near campus, and a peer-to-peer tool called SafeWalk that allows friends to watch out for each other through location
monitoring and group chat. The app is available for both Android and iOS devices. Learn more at https://www.hartford.edu/studentlife/campus-safety/livesafe.aspx.
Text Alert Notifications
UHTXT is a mass notification system that enables University students to receive alerts and updates as text messages on cell phones.
Students who have an accurate cell phone number recorded as “Cellular Phone” in the Self-Service Center will receive text alerts in the
event of a campus emergency or closing. To confirm, add, or remove your cell phone number, follow the instructions at
hartford.edu/alert.
Transportation
Campus shuttles will not operate on days that the University is closed due to severe weather. On-campus shuttle service will begin at
the time the University opens. If the University closes early, a final off-campus route with all stops will leave Millard Circle 15 minutes
after the official closing time. On-campus shuttle service will end with the circuit of campus that immediately follows the official closing
time. https://www.hartford.edu/student-life/transportation/campus-shuttle.aspx.
Red Key Society
The Red Key Society is the University’s team of tour leaders who serve as student ambassadors, sharing their knowledge and passion
for the University of Hartford with prospective students and their families on behalf of the Office of Admission. Members are
responsible for leading campus tours, participating in admission events, assisting with administrative tasks within the Office of
Admission, and more.
For more details on how you can apply to become a Tour Leader, please email us at redkey@hartford.edu or call the Office of
Admission at 860.768.4296.
Student Financial Aid
The University of Hartford, Office of Student Financial Aid works with families to maximize their eligibility for federal, state, and
institutional aid. The office is open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. to answer all financial aid questions. Each
student is assigned to a financial aid counselor. However,students can contact any financial aid representative for assistance. The
Office of Admission and Student Financial Aid is located in Bates House. Walk-ins are accommodated during normal business hours or
you can contact us by phone at 860.768.4296 or 800.947.4303 or email finaid@hartford.edu or go to hartford.edu/finaid for more
information.
Veterans Affairs
The Center for Student Success (CSS) is the point of contact for students inquiring about VA educational benefits. The School Certifying
Officials (SCOs) at CSS assists qualifying veterans and dependents on obtaining and maintaining VA educational benefits. Prior to
enrollment, students are responsible for providing the proper documentation to a SCO and confirming their academic programs are
approved on with WEAMS Public. Call 860.768.4999 or e-mail css@hartford.edu for additional questions.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
PERSONAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
The University of Hartford is an independent academic community consisting of students, faculty, administrators, and a board of regents.
Everyone has a part to play in the preservation of personal freedoms. These freedoms or privileges are fundamental to the University’s
mission of engaging students in acquiring the knowledge, skills, and values necessary to thrive in and contribute to a pluralistic and
complex world. The University encourages freedom of inquiry, freedom of expression, freedom of association, and institutional
participation; it encourages the right of anyone to express their views, including contrary views; and it recognizes the right of dissent. As a
private institution, the University may restrict expression that violates the law or University policies, that falsely defames a specific
individual, that constitutes a genuine threat or harassment, or otherwise interrupts the business continuity of the University. The
University may also reasonably regulate the time, place, and manner of these freedoms.
To keep different parts of the community aware and involved, there are various organizations and channels of communication, formal
and informal, that exist at the University (i.e. Student Government Association (SGA), President’s Office, Dean of Students Office, Office
of Student Engagement and Inclusion, etc.) for which students may access. It is the University’s purpose to have all members of the
University community keep these channels functioning responsively and actively. Students are encouraged to peacefully assemble or
advocate, by orderly means, if it does not infringe on others' rights or impede University business continuity and its responsibility to
maintain order and a conducive learning environment.
Freedom of Inquiry
Students and student organizations are free to examine points of view that interest them in a civil manner
https://www.hartford.edu/about/mission-vision/. The student body may invite reputable speakers to address any topic that is germane
to the University’s mission. All speakers must meet the following conditions:
• Speaker does not disrupt the regular and essential operations of the institution (i.e. openly harassing or soliciting community
members, requiring additional security beyond the scope of the University’s Public Safety team, promoting behaviors or actions
that violate federal, state, or University policies)
• speaker/event has been approved through the event registration process (https://hartford.presence.io/ and/or
https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/hartford#!/home/dash).
• The speaker does not represent groups or organizations that openly violate any state or federal laws
• University procedures for external events and speakers has been followed
https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/hartford#!/home/dash.
Freedom of Expression
Students and student organizations are free, both publicly or privately, to hold discussions, pass resolutions, distribute leaflets or
circulate petitions (see solicitation/posting policy), and take other orderly actions that do not disrupt the regular and essential operation
of the institution. The use of sound-making equipment, noisemaking devices or other disorderly and disruptive conduct to interfere with
University business continuity is not permissible. Communications via student media organizations are free of censorship and advance
approval of copy. Student editors and managers are free to develop editorial policies and news coverage with the understanding that
students and student organizations speak only for themselves and not in any formal way on behalf of the University.
Freedom from Discrimination
Consistent with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable federal and state laws pertaining to civil rights, all as amended, the University does
not discriminate on the basis of race, gender, creed, color, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy or
pregnancy related conditions, national or ethnic origin, veteran status, or any other applicable protected status in the administration and
operation of, or access to, its educational programs or activities, including, without limitation, educational policies, employment,
admissions, financial aid, and other University-administered programs.
The Division of Student Success (Gengras Student Union 307, 860.768.4285) is designated to coordinate efforts by the University to
comply with, and carry out, requirements under Section 504. The individual designated to coordinate efforts by the University to comply
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
with and carry out requirements under Title IX is the Title IX coordinator (Computer and Administration Center, Room 321,
860.768.5255).
Inquiries concerning the application of Title IX, Section 504, and Title VI may be referred to the Regional Director, Office of Civil Rights,
U.S. Department of Education, Boston, MA 02109.
Freedom of Association
Within the scope of University policies, students are free to organize and join associations for educational, political, social, religious, or
cultural purposes.
Right to Institutional Participation
Students have the right to participate in institutional policymaking through a representative student government. The role and
responsibilities of the student government should be and are clearly articulated.
Right to Privacy
Students are protected from arbitrary and capricious invasions of privacy and entry into their residences. Room inspections may be
conducted by University personnel acting in the performance of their duties for reasons of health and safety, to locate missing property
and prohibited articles, for the enforcement of University policies, or for any other reason. A Room Entry Permit may be issued by the
appropriate Office of Residential Life personnel when there is reason to believe that violations are occurring. Such inspections and
searches may result in the offender(s) being referred to the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution. The University of Hartford
cannot interfere with any sworn law enforcement official in conducting room searches if such a search is legal under federal, state, or
local law and is within the authorized performance of the official’s duty - Freedom from Improper Disclosure
In accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, students shall have access to educational records maintained on them
and be protected from improper disclosures to third parties without their consent. Academic and student conduct records will be
maintained separately, with the exception of suspensions or expulsions from the University. Sanctions resulting in suspension or
expulsion will appear on students’ permanent records. Academic records are accessed through the registrar’s office on the second floor
of the Computer Center. Student conduct records are accessed through the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution.
Peaceable Assembly and Student Demonstrations
Because the rights of free expression and peaceable assembly are fundamental to the democratic process, the University of Hartford
firmly supports the rights of all members of the University community to express their views or to protest actions and opinions with
which they disagree.
The right of students, faculty, and staff to civilly express their views is the cornerstone of our academic community. We are committed to
free and open debate and the principle that the right to speak applies equally to everyone, regardless of their viewpoint. Just as every
member of our community has this right, they also have a corresponding responsibility not to interfere with the rights of others to speak,
study, teach, and learn. Consistent with the rules of university conduct in The Source.
To facilitate the safe conduct of demonstrations (defined as a group of people coming together in an event of expression i.e. protest,
peaceful assembly) on campus, activities may not compromise public safety, must be approved through the event registration process
(https://hartford.presence.io/ and/or https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/hartford#!/home/dash),impede the free movement of people or
vehicles, damage University property, or interfere with regular University operations, as determined by the University.
The following constitute examples of conduct that disrupts or interferes with university events or operations, blocks access to university
facilities, restricts others’ ability to listen or be heard, or creates safety concerns, and is therefore not permitted:
Prohibited activity during peaceable assembly and student demonstrations includes but is not limited to:
1. Interference with attendees at any University event or ceremony
2. Speaking from a bullhorn, shouting, or playing amplified music or noise from audio sources in a manner that interferes with
speakers’ ability to be heard and with community member's opportunity to listen, or disrupts or interferes with classes or other
University activities
3. Standing up in an assembly in a way that obstructs the view of those attempting to watch an event or speaker and/or blocking
the aisles or routes of egress
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
4. Sitting in or otherwise occupying a building in a way that blocks access or otherwise interferes with university events or
operations
5. Only one protest/assembly a day will be permitted regardless of viewpoint
6. Trespassing by remaining in buildings when told to leave or remaining in spaces after hours when they are otherwise closed to
the UHART community. The seizure of any facility of the University of Hartford will constitute trespass.
7. Inhibit the freedom of movement of members of the community (e.g., by blocking a pathway or building entry).
8. Wearing masks or face coverings is not permitted.
9. Erecting a tent, any structure, platform, wall, barrier, sculpture, artwork, or other object (“Structure”) on university space,
without prior written permission from the Dean of Students
10. Attach signage to the exterior University structures, or in other ways alter a campus space without prior permission, secured
during the event registration process (https://hartford.presence.io/ and/or
https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/hartford#!/home/dash).
11. Unauthorized use of megaphones or other amplified sound.
12. The use of university resources for expressive activities is restricted to the University of Hartford students, faculty, and staff.
13. No visitors or visitor groups may use University resources or grounds or take part in expressive activity/protests unless
approved through the event registration process (https://hartford.presence.io/ and/or
https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/hartford#!/home/dash).
Students engaging in coercive acts contrary to this policy will be referred to the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution. In
instances of criminal activity and/or trespassing, law enforcement may be contacted for enforcement action or removal of violators.
Peaceable Assembly Guidance
To ensure students can organize peacefully and to maintain the safety and security of our campus the following requirements are in
place.
1. All student events must be registered and approved through the event registration process (https://hartford.presence.io/
and/or https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/hartford#!/home/dash).
2. Events must have a designated organizer. This person must be present throughout the event.
3. All assemblies should be mindful of the University’s mission, values, and civility positions when organizing an event.
4. Assemblies may not exceed two hours. This includes set up and take down.
5. Any signs may be subject to review by university staff prior to the event. The University reserves the right to deny signs use at
assembly. Signs cannot be affixed to any pole like object.
6. Counter protest or assemblies are not permitted on the day of a registered assembly or protest.
7. Assemblies must provide an estimated headcount to university officials 48 hours prior to the event’s scheduled time.
8. Any marching routes must be submitted via the events registration process and approved by Public Safety. Any deviation from
the approved route without written approval of Public Safety is prohibited. The University reserves the right to modify or deny
marching routes at any time.
9. University Public Safety personnel will be present at a protest to ensure that the event proceeds consistent with the
University’s policy on free expression and peaceable assembly.
10. The University's Situation Management Team (SMT) maintains the right to modify or cancel an event if there are safety
concerns that render the event unsafe for the University community.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
UNIVERSITY GUIDELINES AND POLICIES
Student Alcohol Policy
Students should review and are expected to abide by Connecticut state laws and the University of Hartford alcohol policy as
published in The Source, or otherwise distributed or published by The University of Hartford. Alcohol consumption or being under
the influence of alcohol may not be offered as an excuse/rationale for any misconduct.
Behavior that violates this policy includes, but is not limited to:
A. Possession or use of alcoholic beverages by members of the University community or guests/visitors under the age of 21.
B. Distributing, transporting, serving and/or purchasing alcohol to/for minors.
C. Behavior as a result of consumption of alcohol that is disruptive or endangers the health and/or safety of oneself or others
D. Operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol
E. Possession of alcohol that exceeds quantity limits. For students who are of legal age, the quantity limit per student is:
• 15 beers (12 oz containers) OR,
• 1.5 liters of wine OR
• 1 pint of hard alcohol (not higher than 80 proof and not stimulant-enhanced),
Empty containers will be counted towards the quantity limits
The limit per living unit, regardless of the number of occupants/visitors of legal drinking age is:
• 60 beers (12 oz. containers), OR
• 3.0 liters of wine, OR
• 1 liter (2 pints) of hard alcohol
F. Possession of kegs or other large alcohol storage devices/common sources (i.e. trash cans, beer balls etc.).
G. Large gatherings or events where alcohol is present.
H. Possession or use of drinking paraphernalia, devices and/ or games that promote consumption of alcohol (i.e., beer bongs,
beer-pong tables, funnels, empty alcohol containers, etc.). Such items may be confiscated and not returned.
I. Use of alcohol packaging or signage for decoration.
J. Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages in public areas, except where designated, or at university events where
alcohol is not served, regardless of age.
K. Selling or manufacturing alcoholic beverages.
L. Violations of other University alcohol policies or federal, state, and locallaws pertaining to alcohol.
M. Outside organizations, individuals, or businesses advertising in any way the availability or sale of alcoholic beverages in any
area of the campus.
Alternative Education and Service Format Policy
When necessary to protect the health and safety of students, faculty and staff, as determined by the University in its sole discretion,
the University reserves the right to alter:
a) the academic schedule, location and modality of instructional and learning activities, and academic terms and requirements
(including content and grading) of undergraduate, graduate and doctoral programs and instruction; and
b) the schedule, location, availability and format of services, activities, and experiences offered to students.
Students shall not be entitled to refunds or offsets of tuition, fees, or other costs of attendance where the University exercises such
discretion, except to the extent permitted by the University’s refund policies.
Chalking Policy
In certain instances, on a university campus it may be deemed appropriate to “chalk” certain walkways or outdoor spaces as a part of
a communication campaign. For the purposes of this policy, the term chalking represents using sticks of chalk to draw letters or
pictures on horizontal (never vertical) outdoor cement surfaces where other campus community members can see them as they
traverse the campus grounds. Generally speaking, chalking will only be deemed appropriate if related to the educational, cultural,
recreational, or social life of the campus.
A. Procedure and Regulations
Approval for chalking must be given in advance by the Dean of Students or designee. Please use the online form to make your
request for a permit.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Only lead-free, soft sidewalk chalk may be used for writing or drawing pictures on horizontal outdoor surfaces on campus.
Chalking may not be done on any vertical surfaces. Horizontal surfaces uncovered by overhangs or awnings are the only
surfaces approved for chalking. The general rule of thumb is that if you lie on your back and look up from where you want to
chalk and see only sky, it is appropriate to chalk. If you lie on your back and look up and see anything but sky, you may not chalk
that surface!
Chalking may not include profanity, or any depictions deemed inappropriate by campus community standards. The
appropriateness of the depictions or language will be determined by the VP/Dean of Students or designee during the approval
process.
If the timing of a chalking conflicts with another campus event, the chalker may be required to clean off the chalking during a
given day and/or time. If the chalking is to advertise an event with a specific date, it must be cleaned off by the chalking party(s)
on the day after the event. All chalking must be cleaned off within seven (7) days of the initial chalking (if not done naturally by
rain or snow) by the party(s) who did the chalking.
The chalking party is responsible for cleanup, even if they are doing the chalking at the behest of a faculty or staff member or if
they happen to be faculty or staff members.
B. Violations of This Policy
A student or organization found to be in violation of this policy may be referred to the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict
Resolution.
Classroom Recording Policy
Video and audio recordings of class lectures may be part of the classroom activity. Video and audio recordings are used for
educational use/purposes and may be made available to all students presently enrolled in the course.
The University of Hartford prohibits students from making audio and/or video recording of class lectures absent the express
written consent of the instructor or speaker. Students may not reproduce such recordings, share them with those not in the
class, or uploaded them to other online environments. Students who record class lectures without express permission may be
subject to disciplinary action.
Controlled Substance Policy (Drug Policy): Students are expected to be aware of and to observe Connecticut and federal law.
A. The possession and/or use of illegal or harmful drugs in prohibited.
B. The manufacture, distribution, possession with intent to sell and/or sale of prescription medication, illegal or harmful
drugs is prohibited.
C. The possession and/or use of drug paraphernalia is prohibited.
D. The improper possession and/or misuse of prescription medication is prohibited.
Gambling Policy
A. Type of activity allowed:
1. Approved fundraising events, for recognized student groups who are registered with UHart Hub.
▪ Raffles (baskets; game of chance in which tickets are purchased)
▪ 50/50 raffles in which a ticket is purchased
2. Residential Life-sponsored Bingo events.
3. Raffle drawing entries for students completing surveys; or attending a meeting (no purchase necessary) *
All student organization-based activities listed/referenced in this policy must be registered/approved via the Uhart Hub.
If approved, items (t-shirts, food products etc.) and/or approved raffle tickets may be sold at approved organizational events
and/or in the manner specified only. Items or raffle tickets may not be sold door-to-door in the residence hall or in faculty/staff
offices.
B. Type of activity not allowed:
1. Any illegal form of gambling as defined by Connecticut State law, including but not limited to:
betting on, wagering on or selling pools on any athletic event, possessing on one's person or premises (e.g. room,
residence unit, car) any card, book or other device for registering bets; knowingly permitting the use of one's premises or
one's telephone or other electronic communications device for illegal gambling; knowingly receiving or delivering a letter,
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
package or parcel related to illegal gambling; offering, soliciting or accepting a bribe to influence the outcome of an
athletic event; and involvement in bookmaking or wagering pools with respect to sporting events.
2. Sports wagering includes placing, accepting, facilitating or soliciting a bet or a wager of any type with any individual or
organization on any University of Hartford intercollegiate athletic team, and/or University of Hartford student athlete,
and/or any activity, contest or practice of any University of Hartford intercollegiate athletic team.
3. ‘Squares’ for non-University of Hartford athletic teams (‘March Madness,’ Superbowl, etc.) in which square(s) are
purchased as a part of a fundraiser
4. Any event hosted by a student organization that involves students gambling (on or off campus). Gambling is the wagering
of money or something of value on an event with an uncertain outcome, with the chance of winning or losing money or
material goods.
5. Skill-based game with a purchase to enter/participate in the game. Examples include, but are not limited to, card betting
games (casino-like activity) in which there is a purchase to enter/participate in the activity.
6. Gambling of any kind is prohibited in the residence halls.
C. Prizes not allowed:
1. Liquor. (for example, alcohol/ liquor cannot be a part of a raffle basket per CT state law)
2. Items prohibited on or off campus, as established in this student handbook or by law.
3. Recipients of gift cards cannot use the gift card to purchase item(s) that are prohibited on or off campus, as established in
this student handbook or by law.
4. Limitations in prizes per University Hartford ‘gift/award policy.’ (to view this policy, one must use UHart credentials to sign
in/verify current employee/ student).
Good Samaritan and Amnesty Policy
I. Philosophy
The University of Hartford views student health and safety as matters of paramount importance. The University Alcohol and
Drug Policies reflect this priority by prohibiting the use of substances in a manner which is dangerous and/or unlawful.
Students are strongly encouraged to call 860-768-7777 (Public Safety Emergency Phone Line) to request medical assistance
when they or others may be
i. dangerously intoxicated/ under the influence of alcohol/drugs; or,
ii. experiencing any medical emergency.
The Good Samaritan and Amnesty Policy serves as a supplement to the University’s Alcohol and Drug`` Policies and is designed
to encourage good faith, immediate, help-seeking behavior for individuals requiring medical assistance. This policy provides
amnesty from consequences described in the Student Code of Conduct and does not preclude hospitalization, interim
suspension, University student job-related and/or student-athlete interim measures or other actions deemed relevant for
student safety.
II. Policy
This policy applies to students seeking medical assistance for themselves or for another person, and who act in accordance
with the expectations set forth in this policy. It also applies to any student for whom medical assistance was sought.
Under this policy:
a) When students contact Public Safety or another appropriate University staff member (e.g. Resident Assistant on Duty,
etc.) seeking medical attention neither the reporting student northe student for whom medical assistance was sought
will be subject to a Student Conduct complaint for possession, consumption or intoxication under the University’s
alcohol ordrug policies.
b) In order to qualify for medical amnesty under this policy, students who seek assistance for another person must
remain with that individual (assuming the student is present atthe scene) until Public Safety or other designated
first/emergency responder (e.g., ambulance, Fire Department) arrives on scene. It is expected that individuals
involved in this process cooperate fully with first/emergency responders.
c) This policy does not apply to individuals requiring medical assistance for alcohol- or drug- related issues who do not
seek assistance, for whom no assistance was sought, or whohave already been brought to the attention of University
staff or first/emergency responders. For example, this policy would not apply to an intoxicated individual whom
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Public Safety discovers creating a disturbance on campus.
d) This policy applies to university alcohol and drug policy violations related to possession, consumption, and
intoxication. It does not prevent a complaint being filed against a student for other violations of the Student Code of
Conduct (e.g., assault, distribution of illegal substances, etc.), nor does it prevent police/criminal action.
e) When it is the opinion of the Dean of Students or designee that the continued presence of a student constitutes a
danger to the student, or to others, the imposition ofinterim suspension or other temporary restrictions deemed
necessary shall not be precluded under this policy.
f) In order to qualify for medical amnesty under this policy the student(s) will be requiredto:
i. attend a meeting scheduled by the Executive Director of Student Conductand Conflict Resolution or
designee,
ii. attend an educational-based meeting with a trained staff/ graduate studentasrequired by the Executive
Director of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution or designee;and,
iii. Act in accordance with all student expectations outlined in this policy.
g) This policy is in place to provide proactive help and support in good faith for the health of University of Hartford
students in isolated situations. It does not excuse or protect those who repeatedly violate University policy. In most
cases, this Policy will be applied once - either to the intoxicated student, those that have served alcohol, or those
attending social gatherings. Repeat offenders may have their cases referred to the Office of Student Conduct and
Conflict Resolution for a student conduct complaint.
Students that help others in incidents of a medical emergency are not limited to one use of this policy as they should always
feel empowered to help those in need. Serious or repeated incidents, however, will prompt a higher degree of medical concern
and formal response from the University which may include an intervention and/or student conduct action.
a) This policy is applied after an incident has been reviewed in the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution.
University personnel responding to an incident will follow all protocols on the scene, including documentation of the
incident and of those involved.
b) This University policy does not prevent action by local, state, and/or federal authorities.
Hazing Policy
I. Policy Statement
The University of Hartford is committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of all members of its community. Hazing—regardless
of intent—undermines the values of respect, inclusion, integrity, and community that define the University’s culture and mission. It is
the responsibility of all student organizations to model an atmosphere of learning, social responsibility, and respect for human dignity
and to provide positive influences and constructive development for members and aspiring members.
II. Scope
This policy applies to all members of the University of Hartford community including but not limited to students, staff, faculty,
members of student groups, athletic teams, volunteers, and affiliates.
III. Definitions
A. “Hazing” is defined as any intentional, knowing, or reckless act committed by a person (whether individually or in
concert with other persons), against another person or persons regardless of the willingness of such other person or
persons to participate, that:
(i.) is committed in the course of an initiation into, an affiliation with, or the maintenance of membership in, a student
organization; and
(ii.) violates local, federal, or state criminal law or causes or creates a risk, above the reasonable risk encountered in
the course of participation at the University of Hartford activities or the Student Organization’s activities, of physical or
psychological injury as defined below.
B. “Student organization” means a fraternity, sorority, or other organization organized or operating at the University of
Hartford.
IV. Policy
Hazing by individuals and Student Organizations is prohibited in any form both on campus and off campus. Any activity may be
considered hazing regardless of consent or willingness to participate in the activity. Prohibited acts of hazing include, but not limited
to:
A. whipping, beating, striking, electronic shocking, placing of a harmful substance on someone’s body, or similar activity;
B. causing, coercing, or otherwise inducing sleep or food deprivation, exposure to the elements, violations of privacy,
extreme calisthenics, or other similar activity;
C. confinement of a person to unreasonably small, unventilated, unsanitary or unlighted areas;
D. causing coercing, or otherwise inducing another person to perform sexual acts;
E. requiring indecent exposure of the body or degrading dress codes;
F. causing, coercing or otherwise inducing another person to consume food, liquid, beverage, alcohol, liquor, drugs, or
other substances;
G. any activity that places another person in reasonable fear of bodily harm through the use of threatening words or
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
conduct;
H. any activity against another person that includes a criminal violation of local, State, Tribal or Federal law;
I. any activity that induces, causes, or requires another person to perform a duty or task that involves a criminal violation
of local, State, Tribal, or Federal law; and
J. any activity which is likely to adversely affect the physical health or safety of a person, or which subjects a person to
mental distress.
V. Reporting Requirements
If you believe that you have been hazed or have witnessed hazing, please report the incident to:
A. Public Safety
860.768.7777(emergency)
860.768.7985 (non-emergency)
B. Anonymous reporting via LifeSafe App
C. Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion (OSEI)
Assistant Director, Civic Engagement and Fraternity & Sorority Life
Gengras Student Union, Room 209; 860.768.5257
D. Student Conduct Referral Form
E. Dean of Students Office
Gengras Student Union, Room 307; 860.768.4285
Individual students and/or student organizations that are accused of allegedly violating this policy may be placed on interim
suspension while allegations are investigated.
VI. Policy Violations
Individual students and/or student organizations found responsible for hazing will be sanctioned. In addition to action taken by the
University, individuals and/or student organizations may be subject to criminal or civil action (Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53-23a).
VII. Connecticut Hazing Laws and Regulations
Title 53. Crimes
Chapter 939. Offenses Against The Person
Sec. 53-23a. Hazing.
A. For purposes of this section:
i.) "Hazing" means any action which recklessly or intentionally endangers the health or safety of a person for the purpose
of initiation, admission into or affiliation with, or as a condition for continued membership in a student organization.
The term shall include, but not be limited to:
1. Requiring indecent exposure of the body;
2. Requiring any activity that would subject the person to extreme mental stress, such as sleep deprivation or
extended isolation from social contact;
3. Confinement of the person to unreasonably small, unventilated, unsanitary or unlighted areas;
4. Any assault upon the person; or
5. Requiring the ingestion of any substance or any other physical activity which could adversely affect the health or
safety of the individual. The term shall not include an action sponsored by an institution of higher education which
requires any athletic practice, conditioning, or competition or curricular activity.
ii.) No student organization or member of a student organization shall engage in hazing any member or person pledged to
be a member of the organization. The implied or express consent of the victim shall not be a defense in any action
brought under this section.
iii.) A student organization which violates subsection (b) of this section (1) shall be subject to a fine of not more than one
thousand five hundred dollars and (2) shall forfeit for a period of not less than one year all of the rights and privileges
of being an organization organized or operating at an institution of higher education.
iv.) A member of a student organization who violates subsection (b) of this section shall be subject to a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars.
v.) This section shall not in any manner limit or exclude prosecution or punishment for any crime or any civil remedy.
(P.A. 88-328, S. 1-5.)
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
No Contact Order Policy
The University of Hartford is committed to providing support and resources to any student who may be the recipient of persistent
unwanted or harassing contact by another student. In certain circumstances, it may become necessary for the University to
formalize an arrangement between two students to prohibit contact with each other (direct and/or indirect) other than that which is
necessary for either party to continue their academic pursuits. The following No Contact Order Policy does not apply to
reported/alleged behavior that is addressed via the Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy.
University administrators are authorized to issue a No Contact Order (NCO) prohibiting contact between students when there exists
a reasonable concern that physical or emotional harm may result from such contact.
The University will consider all facts and circumstances that may be relevant to whether an NCO should be issued, including, but not
limited to, the following factors:
• When there are allegations, threats, or evidence of physical violence by one studentagainst another*;
• When there are allegations, threats, or evidence of emotional abuse or harassment byone student of another;
• When there is a substantial risk of emotional harm from continued contact between students;
• When continued contact between students may have a material impact on campus student conduct-related proceedings;
• When there are allegations of serious violations of University policy*.
*The reporting student will contact Public Safety in such instances.
NCOs are generally reciprocal and shall provide that neither student may have contact with the other. “Contact” includes, but is not
necessarily limited to, in-person contact, telephone calls, email, mail, text messages and other forms of electronic communication,
social media-based messages or postings, and third-party communications including through proxies.
NCOs may include additional protective measures or other terms specific to the safety, well-being, or other needs of either or both
students subject to the NCO, when deemed necessary by the University. Any additional terms shall be expressly stated in the NCO.
Additional protective measures or other terms need not be reciprocal.
NCOs may include, but are not limited to, the following:
• Restricting a student from being in close proximity to the other student;
• Restricting a student’s access to certain campus locations, including the otherstudent’sresidence hall;
• Restricting the time a student may be present in on-campus dining facilities;
• Requiring that the students not be enrolled in the same academic course(s); and/or
• Requiring that the students not participate in the same co-curricular orextra-curricular activities.
The No Contact Order is not a legal peace or protective order as issued by a court of law and will not apply to non-University related
premises; however, it will apply to University-sponsored activities regardless of the location. Students may contact Public Safety for
information on filing a form of legal protection (i.e. restraining order etc.) with the local court.
The following administrators may issue NCOs:
• An Office of Residential Life professional staff member
• VP/Dean of Students, or designee
• Executive Director of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution
If a student is harmed due to another student’s sharing or publicizing an NCO (i.e., verbally, through social media), such an act may
be considered retaliation under University policy and the responsible student may be subject to disciplinary action.
NCOs will end at the conclusion of the semester in which the NCO was issued. A student seeking the modification or rescission of an
NCO prior to the specified end date shall so request from the administrator who issued the NCO. An administrator shall consult with
both parties before determining whether or not to modify or rescind the NCO.
Reporting of violations of the NCO is the responsibility of the parties to whom it is issued. Reports of violations should be made to
Public Safety, who will investigate and, if appropriate, make a referral to the Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution.
NCOs are designed primarily to prevent intentional contact. Incidental contact (e.g., parties sighting or passing each other on
campus pathways) is not considered a violation of an NCO; NCOs may include rules regarding interactions in specific, public
locations.
NCOs are issued at the University’s discretion and the University may decline to issue an NCO where it determines the process is
being misused or where it would be inappropriate for other reasons. Students who have interpersonal conflicts that do not raise
concerns for individual health and safety will not be granted NCOs. These individuals should pursue other forms of conflict
resolution, such as mediation, offered through Residential Life or the Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
Painting the Anchor Policy
A long-standing tradition at the University of Hartford is the painting of the anchor. Groups or individuals wishing to paint the anchor
must schedule their painting using the online form available on the OSEI Website to make your request.
The following rules must be adhered to during the painting of the anchor:
• There must be no obstruction of traffic.
• The contact person is to have the required form (acquired from the Dean of Students office)with them during the painting.
• Painting may not include any profanity, or any depictions deemed inappropriateby campus community standards. The
appropriateness of the depictions or language will be determined by the Dean of Students or designee.
• Any person/group painting the anchor at an unapproved time will lose painting privileges for a period of at least one
academic year.
History of the Anchor — The anchor located at the front of campusis from the warship USS Hartford. The USS Hartford was built in 1857
as a sailing warship and was instrumental in many battle successes of the Civil War. Its commander was Admiral David Farragut. It
was from the bridge of this ship during the battle of Mobile Bay that Farragut is famously to have said. “Damn the torpedoes, full
speed ahead.” The ship was decommissioned on November 6, 1957, the year the University of Hartford was established. In 1957 a
West Hartford resident saw the USS Hartford in Portsmouth, VAand requested the bell and a bow anchor be brought to Hartford.
The bell went to the City of Hartford and the anchor arrived on campus in 1958. The anchor is 13 feet tall with 10 feet wide flukes.
The cannons from the ship are now located on the campus of Trinity College in Hartford.
Click here to request reservation/permit.
Solicitation & Posting Policy
1. University buildings and grounds are private property and are for the use of registered students, University guests, and visitors.
Students may not invite dealers or other tradespeople onto campus unless they receive permission from the VP/Dean of
Students or designee.
2. The University name may not be used in any form for personal profit by any member of the University community or by nonUniversity personnel, nor may it be printed, other than for official University business, without prior permission by the VP/Dean
of Students and by the Chief Financial Officer.
3. Students, faculty, and staff may not make solicitations for personal profit or on behalf of any group or organization (University
sponsored or non- University) and may not use University buildings or property for personal profit without preliminary
clearance. No solicitors, salespeople, or agents (student or others) are allowed to contact students room to room in the
residence halls for commercial purposes (examples include club promotions, magazine, or food sellers, etc.).
4. Advertisements by organizations other than University of Hartford clubs, organizations, and committees will be allowed in the
Student Centers and Residential Life areaswith prior approval from those departments on a space- available basis. Acceptance
of outside advertising in Student Centers and Residential Life does not imply endorsement or sanction of the program, event, or
product.
5. No off-campus materials will be accepted. All publications shared on campus must be affiliated with a University Sponsored
Event or University Department through the appropriate event registration process. https://www.hartford.edu/studentlife/clubs-activities/student-centers/
6. Advertising flyers/posters may not be hung on walls, windows, doors, or other areas that are not designated for such purpose
on the interior or exterior of any campus facility. Temporary signs and banners are not to be hung on permanent University
signs, light poles, building exteriors, or traffic signs. There will be no posting of signsof any type of university entrance.
Postings/signs displayed in these non-approved areas will be removed and discarded.
7. Bright Screens are TV monitors found in high traffic areas around campus. These screens display PNG or JPG files advertising
events/ activities sponsored by university offices, clubs, and organizations. When a space/room is requested for booking via
UHart Hub, the sponsoring office/student org can upload the PNG/ JPG file for inclusion into the existing rotation of TV monitor
slides/graphics. If no space is requested but, a University office or student club/organization wants to post a flier onto the
rotation for GSU/ Residential Life signs, or request use of the TV monitors in other buildings on campus, contact the staff
member who manages the TV monitors in the respective building to submit a request for a flyer/graphic to run on the TV
monitor.
A posting request that includes content that promotes behavior that does not align with the policies in The Source (this student
handbook) will not be approved for posting. The final determination of what is posted on campus is ultimately made by the
respective office/area responsible for managing TV monitors.
Smoking Guidelines
Smoking is not permitted in any building on campus. ‘Vaping” is considered smoking. Smoking includes the use e-cigarettes
(including JUULs) and any other device that creates aerosolized vapor. Due to health and safety concerns, campus community
members must stay at least 25 feet from the perimeter to any building when smoking.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
University Procedures for Vetting External Speakers, Organizations for Campus Events
1. Students, faculty, and staff must follow Event Registration Guidelines found on the Student Centers Webpage
2. The “Designated Reviewer” from the appropriate department (ex. Division of Student Success, Office of the Provost, or Office of
Finance and Administration) will review each completed form to identify any events that pose potential security or safety
concerns.
3. If no potential security or safety concern has been identified, the Designated Reviewer may approve the event request.
4. If a potential security or safety concern has been identified, a subgroup of the Situation Management Team will conduct a risk
assessment of the event, and provide a risk assessment report, including a proposed plan to mitigate potential safety and
security risks, to the appropriate University officer/department head or their designee.
5. After receiving the risk assessment report, the appropriate University officer/department head or their designee will make a
recommendation to the administration on next steps.
6. The President or the President’s designee will work with the event sponsor to determine whether sufficient plans can be made
to ensure the safety of our campus community and mitigate security risks. If the University determines that the safety and
security risks cannot be sufficiently mitigated, and the event continues to pose a significant threat to the campus community,
the President or the President’s designee will make a final decision regarding the scheduling of the event.
*NOTE: These procedures do not apply to: (1) annual University events such as commencement ceremonies, honor and awards
programs; or (2) the following pre-approved events: classroom activities under the authority of the instructor/professor, NCAA athletic
competitions and events, and events sponsored by the President or Vice Presidents such as Institutional Advancement events and
Board of Regents meetings.
Weapons Guidelines
The possession and/or use on University property of firearms, non-functional representations of firearms that could reasonably be
perceived to be real firearms, deadly weapons, and dangerous instruments is not permitted regardless of whether an individual is
licensed to carry such a weapon, with the exception of authorized public safety officers, sworn local, state, and federal law
enforcement officers.
Firearms may include, but are not limited to, any guns, sawed-off shotgun, machine gun, rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver or other
weapon, whether loaded or unloaded, from which a shot may be discharged are prohibited.
Deadly weapons may include, but are not limited to, any weapon, whether loaded or unloaded, from which a shot may be
discharged, or a switchblade knife, gravity knife, billy, blackjack, bludgeon, or metal knuckles.
Dangerous instruments include any instrument, article or substance which, under the circumstances in which it is used or attempted
or threatened to be used, is capable of causing death or serious physical injury, to include hunting bows, knives with a blade longer
than 4”, paintball guns or paraphernalia, air-soft guns, electronic defense weapons (commonly referred as ‘tazers’), crossbows,
swords or similar items.
One canister of pepper spray is permitted with certain restrictions:
1. The person in possession should be a minimum of 18 years old.
2. The size of pepper spray container should be pocket-sized.
3. The pepper spray can only be used in self-defense when the user reasonably feels their safety may be in jeopardy. Any use
outside of this restriction, including accidental discharge, is considered a violation of the Weapons Guidelines.
Note: Kitchen cutlery stored and utilized in University dining facilities or in residential kitchens shall not be subjected to the
provisions of this policy unless used in a manner inconsistent with their design.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT POLICIES
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA)
The purpose of FERPA is twofold: first, to afford present and former students “the right to inspect and review” their “education
records;” second, to protect students’ rights to privacy by limiting the transfer of their Records without their consent.
FERPA specifically excludes the following from education records: financial records of the parents of the student or any information
contained therein; confidential letters and statements of recommendation respecting admission to any educational agency or
institution, if the student has signed a waiver of right to access. The act also specifically excludes the following from education
records: records of instructional supervision and administrative personnel that are in the sole possession of the maker thereof and
that are not accessible or revealed to other parties; records on a student created or maintained by a physician, psychiatrist,
psychologist, or other recognized professional or paraprofessional, created and maintained in connection with the provision of
treatment to the student. Finally, the act specifies that it shall not be construed as altering confidential communications otherwise
protected by law.
FERPA requires the University to make education records, not excluded above, available to students within a reasonable time but in
no case to exceed 45 days after a written request has been made. The request should identify the record(s) the student wishes to
inspect. A student wishing to challenge the accuracy of his/her records should submit comments in writing to the official maintaining
the records. If informal efforts to resolve areas of disagreement fail, the student may request a hearing regarding the request for
amendment. Officials maintaining various records at the University include the registrar, directors of admission and student financial
assistance, director of residential life, bursar, deans of the colleges, director of career and professional development, judicial
coordinator, and veteran’s advisor. Most of these individuals are identified elsewhere in this handbook. Except as permitted by the
act, transcripts of, or information concerning a student’s education record will be released to parties outside the University only with
the written consent of the student, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. The act also allows the
University to release “directory information.”
The University defines the following information as directory information: name, address, telephone listing, name and address of
parents or guardians, dates of attendance, enrollment status, student job assignments and locations; degrees, honors, and awards
received, major field of study, school or residential college affiliation, date and place of birth, participation in University-sponsored
sports and activities, weight and height of student-athletes, previous educational institution(s) attended, picture or video of the
student, student identification number, and e-mail addresses. Any student objecting to the release of directory information should
bring this to the attention of the registrar; accordingly, release of directory information for the particular student will be withheld.
You may complete this form at any time, but if it is not received by the registrar’s office prior to September 15, your information
may be included in any of several printed directories created at the beginning of each academic year. Students wishing to do so may
file a complaint concerning alleged failures by the University to comply with the requirements of FERPA with the Family Policy
Compliance Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20202-4605.
Title VI
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 provides that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under, any program or
activity receiving federal financial assistance. The intent of Title VI is to ensure for all individuals equal access to federal benefits. To
file a complaint please visit https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/filing-a-complaint/index.html
Title IX
Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination based on the sex of employees and students of educational institutions that
receive federal financial assistance. Title IX’s prohibition of sex discrimination includes the prohibition of sexual harassment and
sexual violence.
We at the University of Hartford strive to provide an environment free from sexual violence and other sexual misconduct, including,
without limitation, sexual assault, intimate partner violence, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking.
https://www.hartford.edu/about/policies/title-ix/
Section 504
The University of Hartford hereby provides notice to its students, employees, applicants, and others that it supports the language
and intent of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (and regulations issued pursuant hereto, effective June 3, 1977), which
prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in its educational programs and its activities.
THE SOURCE 2024-2025
This policy and the requirement of nondiscrimination extend to admission to, access to, and employment at the University. Pursuant
to section 504 and implementing regulations, the University also gives notice that the Dean of Students is the individual designated
to coordinate efforts by the University to comply with and carry out requirements and responsibilities under section 504 and serves
as the University’s compliance officer. The Dean of Students is located in Gengras Student Union 307 and can be contacted at
860.768.4285. The Associate Vice President for the Division of Student Success will serve as the coordinator for students with
disabilities providing direct advice and assistance to persons with disabilities.
Any student at the University who feels that he or she has been denied access to programs, facilities, or activities, or has been
discriminated against based on a handicap, and who wishes to file a complaint, may do so by contacting the Assistant Vice President
for the Division of Student Success at 860.768.4260, who shall attempt to remedy the student’s grievance by informal means.
If the complaining party is not satisfied, he or she may follow established grievance procedures; a copy of the procedures is available
from the assistant vice president for student health and wellness and includes the complainant’s identifying in detail the nature of
the grievance, as well as the parties, physical location, and other relevant information.
The grievance procedure includes a review by the compliance officer and, if necessary, a hearing before a committee of persons
having no prior interest in the grievance. If remedial action is recommended by the hearing committee, the compliance officer will
bring the findings of the committee to the attention of the appropriate supervisor and provide the grievant with a copy of the
record, with the supervisor submitting a written response to the recommendations and findings of the hearing committee together
with any plans for necessary remedial action.
Right to Contact U.S. Department of Education
Any person may also contact the Regional Director, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education, Boston, MA 02109,
regarding the institution’s compliance with regulations implementing Title VI, Title IX, and Section 504.
Complaints Regarding Administrative Decisions
If a student has a complaint about an administrative action or decision affecting that student, then the University encourages the
student first to meet with a representative from the relevant department to resolve that complaint.
If that meeting fails to resolve the complaint to the student’s satisfaction, the student can then bring that complaint to the attention
of the University officer who oversees the applicable administrative function, or that officer’s designee.
Some examples include:
• for a housing or disciplinary matter:
Dean of Students, Gengras Student Union 307, 860.768.4285;
• for a financial aid matter or issue with academic records: Provost, Computer Center 332, 860.768.4505; or
• for general financial or billing matters:
Vice President for Finance and Administration, Computer Center 328, 860.768.5307.
If the matter has not been satisfactorily resolved after completing each step described above, then the student may choose to
contact either or both of the following:
Connecticut Office of Higher Education
61 Woodland Street
Hartford, CT 06105-2326
800.842.0229
CTOHE Student Complaint Website
New England Commission of Higher Education
3 Burlington Woods Drive Suite 100
Burlington, MA 01803-4514
cihe@neasc.org; 781.425.7785 https://www.neche.org/for-thepublic/comments-complaints/
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
DIVISION OF STUDENT SUCCESS
The Division of Student Success staff strive to provide quality services and programs that enable our students to grow personally and
academically. All Division of Student Success professionals at the University of Hartford will use their best efforts to share accurate
information with you in a timely fashion; to solicit your opinions and ideas and to listen to them; to treat you with dignity and respect;
to speak directly and honestly with you; to state their expectations clearly and hold you and themselves accountable for living up to
them; to encourage you to exercise leadership; to challenge not only you but also the status quo, and to encourage you to become
involved in a full range of activities and learning experiences.
The Division of Student Success wants to create an active, supportive, and vital living-learning community that will enhance student
development and retention. By focusing on the principles of open communication, empowerment, engagement, inclusion, and service
excellence. Our goals are to:
• provide a supportive community
• help you maximize your potential for becoming responsible citizens of the world
• increase your involvement with the faculty and staff
• create an inclusive campus climate and community that promotes collaborative interactions
• provide co-curricular opportunities for learning and engagement
• encourage opportunities for participation in community service andservice-learning opportunities
The University of Hartford offers a variety of student services aimed at bridging students’ curricular and co-curricular experiences on
and off campus.
Specifically, the following areas within the Division of Division of Student Success provide specialized services and programs designed
for you:
• Access-Ability Services
• Athletics & Recreation
• Center for Student Success
• Content-Based Tutoring Services
• Counseling and Psychological Services
• Health Services
• Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion
• Orientation
• Public Safety
• Residential Life
• Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution
Access-Ability Services
Access-Ability Services at The University of Hartford provides services and accommodations to students with disabilities. For more
information please visit:
https://www.hartford.edu/academics/academic-support/accessibility-services/
Athletics & Recreation
The University of Hartford Athletics Department, home of the Hartford Hawks, is dedicated to excellence in both academics and
athletics. Our program emphasizes the holistic development of student-athletes, fostering a supportive and inclusive environment. We
encourage our athletes to achieve their best on and off the field, promoting values of teamwork, discipline, and community service. For
more information, visit University of Hartford Athletics.
Department of Athletics
The mission of the department of athletics is to create a culture of competitiveness and excellence, while setting the standard as the
most influential NCAA Division III athletic and recreation department.
The athletics department administration, coaches and staff are expected to uphold the standards of the University, the NCAA, and the
Conference of New England at all times. Prior to the beginning of each academic year, each student-athlete will be provided an electronic
copy of the Student Athlete Handbook, which outlines the policies and procedures for being a student-athlete at the University of
Hartford. Student-athletes should refer to this document, which will be emailed to them via the ARMS software, for all program policies
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
and procedures. For any questions about the handbook, please feel free to reach out to your head coach, sport administrator or athletic
department administration at any time.
Department of Recreation
The UHart Recreation Department oversees student involvement in intramural, recreation, and club sports. It is designed to provide a
safe, competitive, flexible, and structured environment for ALL students and staff/faculty. Leagues, tournaments, one-day and special
events are offered throughout the academic year to serve a large & diverse student population. Leagues and tournaments are divided
into Women's, Men's, and Coed Divisions. We aim to provide student development opportunities through participation as a participant
and employee within the entire program. Visit UHart Rec on Instagram @uhart_rec to stay up to date for all intramural sign-up activities.
Club Sports
The University of Hartford Club Sports Programs supports the Athletics & Recreation Department's mission of providing intramural and
recreational opportunities for the entire campus community. Club Sports programs offer a unique campus experience emphasizing
recreational opportunities, student development, and leadership activities. Participating in Club Sports will enhance your experience with
physical, ethical, social, psychological, and intellectual development.
The University of Hartford Club Sports Program is designed to enhance the student experience while participating in a sport of choice. It is
not intended to lead clubs to varsity status under the Hartford Intercollegiate Athletics program, nor is club sports affiliated with the
athletic department. For more club sport information, please visit our home page.
For up-to-date intramural, recreation and club sports information, please make sure to visit the Clubs & Activities page.
Center for Student Success
The Center for Student Success (CSS) is a one-stop-shop for undergraduate and graduate students seeking support with billing,
payments, and registration. For First Year undergraduate students, it also serves as the hub for first year advising. In addition, contentbased tutoring is housed through CSS, offering services such as drop-in tutoring, one-on-one tutoring, Peer Support Workshops, and
preceptor opportunities.
The Center for Student Success is located in Gengras Student Union (GSU), Room 230.
Counseling and Psychological Services
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) supports the mission of the University by helping students achieve their educational and
personal goals. The emphasis is on adjustment to college, personal growth, and meeting the developmental needs of students by
providing them with support, information, and life skills. The tools and processes offered by CAPS include psychosocial assessment,
short-term individual and group psychotherapy, mental health consultation and training, and psychological education through campuswide programs and outreach to classes, departments, and student groups. CAPS also assists with off-campus referrals for
psychological treatment.
Some of the issues addressed through counseling, consultation, and psychoeducation include:
• relationship and communication skills
• self-esteem
• anxiety
• sexuality
• alcohol and other drugs
• eating issues
• stress management
• depression and suicide
• grief and loss
It is normal for any one of us to feel the need for assistance in making difficult decisions, handling troublesome relationships, managing
change, or coping with feelings of loneliness, fear, or sadness. Students often come to CAPS with issues concerning roommates, friends,
dating partners,and/or family. It is also common that during adjustment to college, self-doubts arise, and some students need help in
making the transition. All of us have periods of crisis in our lives and times when it can be very helpful to talk with a professional
therapist.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
What About Confidentiality?
Counseling sessions are confidential. Any records kept on students are the property of CAPS and are not part of the students’ academic
or medical records. There is no communication with parents, faculty, or staff about counseling visits without the written consent of the
student. In rare instances when there is a deemed imminent risk to the safety of the student or to others, confidentiality may be
breached.
How Does Counseling Work?
Full-time and part-time undergraduate and graduate students taking at least six credits are eligible to access CAPS services. Students
may have one initial consultation or phone screening each semester, during which time the counselor makes a clinical
recommendation. The most common recommendations are a course of briefgroup or individual therapy at CAPS or a referral to
psychological and/or psychiatric treatment off-campus; CAPS services are time-limited in nature and help students focus on identified
goals and objectives to address their main concern(s). It is not unusual for students to be referred to an off-campus provider for
psychological and/or psychiatric treatment. The most common reasons for referring a student off campus are as follows:
1. The student’s concerns are so significant that the student requires more intensive treatment than CAPS is able to provide.
2. The student does not necessarily have severe issues/concerns, but could benefit from more ongoing support, such as longerterm therapy during their years at UHart. Oftentimes, these students have already completed at least one course of brief
treatment at CAPS and are seeking continued services.
3. The student is currently taking psychotropic medication, or has taken psychotropic medication in the past, and is seeking a
psychiatric evaluation and/or ongoing medication management. In some cases, students may be referred to Student Health
Services for medication management or to potentially begin a course of medication.
CAPS has a psychiatric resident on staff about 3 hours per week. Appointments with our psychiatric resident are primarily reserved for
students who have never taken psychotropic medications currently or in the past. CAPS counselors will work with students to help
facilitate referrals to off-campus therapists and psychiatrists. While walk-in appointments at CAPS are reserved for emergencies only
(such as potential risk to self or others), an initial appointment with a counselor may be arranged easily by calling the CAPS office at
860.768.4482 or by emailing CAPS@hartford.edu.
Online Supports for Students
Any student seeking or requiring off-campus psychological or psychiatric services may consider searching Thriving Campus:
https://hartford.thrivingcampus.com/ or Psychology Today: https://www.psychologytoday.com/. Thriving Campus is a directory of
providers in the surrounding community who treat college-age students. Psychology Today is a popular search engine for finding
therapists across the country.
Psychological Emergencies Policy Statement
In cases when a student who is on campus presents as potential imminent risk of harming/killing themselves or others or is gravely
disabled by psychological distress and/or intoxication, concerned faculty, staff, or students (including the student in distress) should
contact our Public Safety Department immediately (860-768-7777). If the student is off campus, concerned parties (including the
student in distress) should call 911.
Public Safety officers will respond to situations as appropriate and assess for the safety of students and others. If Public Safety
determines the student is an imminent danger to themselves or others, Public Safety may contact Hartford Police Department. Mobile
Crisis responders will then come to campus to evaluate the student and determine if the student needs to be transported to the
hospital for further evaluation and possible admission to the hospital for safety purposes. Students deemed at high risk will be
transported by ambulance to a local hospital voluntarily, or in rare cases, involuntarily. Regarding the latter, Hartford Police
Department may decide to institute an involuntary psychiatric transport and hold as needed to keep the student and/or others safe.
If Public Safety officers, after having conducted an initial risk assessment on the student of concern remain undecided about whether
the student should be transported to the hospital, Public Safety will contact the Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) clinician
on-call for a consultation. The CAPS clinician on-call will consult with Public Safety and other parties present (often Office of Residential
Life) and decide if the student should be transported to the hospital for further evaluation.
Medical Leave of Absence
A number of students experience periods of medical or psychological distress during their years at the University. During such periods,
the vast majority of students are able to continue their studies and benefit from the structure and support of the collegiate
environment. The Office of Counseling and Psychological Services and the Health Services departments are committed to providing
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
evaluation, treatment, and referral services designed to facilitate the continued participation of students in University life while they
are dealing with these medical or psychological issues.
Occasionally, students experience medical or psychological problems severe enough to require more intensive treatment or time away
from the University environment. This policy is intended to ease the departure process and facilitate the student’s return to the
University when enrollment needs to be interrupted for a period of time.
Requesting a Leave
Students needing to interrupt their studies for a personal matter, may request to be placed on a medical leave of absence upon the
written recommendation of a staff member from the Office of Counseling and Psychological Services, a private therapist, or a medical
provider. Students requesting a medical leave of absence must present a statement from their attending physician, which willbe
reviewed and acted upon by the Associate Vice President of Student Success, or designee. Students on medical leave of absence remain
matriculated at the University for up to two semesters after the approved leave of absence and are not required to reapply for
admission during that time. Students participate in the normal registration and room-selection process in absentia, are eligible for
tuition and fee refunds according to the University’s published refund policy and are informed of the implications of the leave on their
financial aid packages. It is the student’s responsibility to contact financial aid to determine what, if any, impact the leave will have on
their financial aid for the semester.
Returning to the University
Students returning from a medical leave of absence will be required to submit a return to campus form (available in the Dean of
Students Office) completed by a qualified licensed professional; to meet with the Associate Vice President of Student Success, or
designee, and to decide when appropriate, for on or off-campus support services tailored to their individual needs.
Required Medical or Psychological Leave of Absence
There may be a rare occasion when a student is required to take a leave of absence based on a thorough review of their case, including
recommendations of a staff member from the Office of Counseling and Psychological Services, Student Health Services, or a private
physician or therapist in consultation with appropriate staff/offices.
The Associate Vice President of Student Success or designee is responsible for consulting with appropriate offices; notifying
individuals/offices that have a need to know; communicating with the student and, if advisable, the family; and managing community
reactions when necessary.
All questions and concerns about any potential required medical or psychological leave of absence are to be directed to the Associate
Vice President of Student Success.
Health Services
Health Services is proud to partner with Hartford HealthCare to help you feel your best. They are located to the left of the Sports
Center and ready to help with your medical needs.
For more information, please visit the Health Services website.
The Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion
The Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion (OSEI) actively demonstrates our commitment to student success by providing
dynamic programs, opportunities, and services that support student development and belonging.
Our Services
• Community Service and Volunteer Opportunities
• Commuter Student Services
• Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiatives
• Fraternity and Sorority Life
• Empowered Leaders Student Leadership Development
• Religious and Spiritual Life
• Student Centers
• Student Government Association
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
• Student Organizations Support
• The Nosh Food Pantry
Where is the Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion located?
• Office location: Gengras Student Union Suite 205
• Office hours: Monday—Friday, 8:30 a.m.–6 p.m.
• Phone: 860.768.5409
• Email: SEI@hartford.edu
• Connect with the Office:
Facebook: @uhartstudentengagement
Instagram: @uhartosei
For more information visit us: https://hartford.presence.io/
The Nosh (food pantry)
The Nosh, located in Gengras Student Union (GSU) room 209, is a Connecticut Foodshare approved pantry that has met all Foodshare
certifications and food safety requirements. It serves all members of the University of Hartford campus community. The Nosh is
managed by the Office of Student Engagement and Inclusion (OSEI) with support from the Food Pantry Committee.
Donations of any food that is “shelf-stable” or nonperishable that has not reached its “sell-by” date are welcomed, as well as toiletries,
feminine hygiene products, personal care items, household cleaning products, …etc. Anyone interested in donating to the pantry can
bring items to GSU 205, or if in need of items can stop by GSU 209 anytime during the GSU hours of operation.
Office of Inclusive Excellence and Belonging - Campus Religious Life
Catholic Campus Ministry
Catholic Campus Ministry at the University of Hartford is a ministry of the Archdiocese of Hartford. Catholic Campus Ministry provides
a welcoming space for students, alumni, faculty, and staff to celebrate, explore, or nurture faith in the Catholic tradition and deepen
their relationship with Christ in the community of the Church. The Catholic Center across from the main entrance to campus (207
Bloomfield Avenue) offers weekly Mass, Scripture studies, small faith groups, retreats, community service opportunities, and social
connections through the student group The Newman Club. All students are welcome at the Center during open hours and for all events
and services. For more information, visit our website at:
https://www.hartford.edu/student-life/clubs-activities/spiritual-life/catholic-campus-ministry/
Chabad Chevra
Chabad Chevra at the University of Hartford seeks to be a “home away from home” and strives to foster a familial environment,
emphasizing tradition and Jewish unity. Chabad Chevra was founded to serve the religious, educational, and social needs of the
University of Hartford community.
For more information, visit the Chabad House, call 860.997.2921, or email rabbi@hartford.edu, follow on Facebook
fb.com/chabadchevra
Protestant Campus Ministry
Reverend F. Gary Knighton is the Protestant minister for the campus. He is available for spiritual formation and provides spiritual
guidance for students and faculty/administration personnel. Pastor Knighton supports the efforts of the Fellowship of Christian
Athletes, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, and the Gospel Choir. An essential function of the ministry is to link students with local area
churches to be a part of during their time on campus. Services are held on Tuesday nights at 7pm for weekly worship services. Email
Pastor Knighton at pcm@hartford.edu or call 860.819.9798.
The Office of Jewish Life
Both an office within the University of Hartford, as well as an accredited Hillel, the Office of Jewish Life is committed to providing
opportunities for students to celebrate, discover, and experience Judaism in a pluralistic and welcoming environment. At Hillel, you do
not have to be religious, go to day school, or attend Jewish summer camp to fit in. All students are welcome–some come to study,
others to join to pray, learn, or help change the world through tikkun olam. Hillel provides a safe, supportive, and inclusive
environment for students to consider new ideas, celebrate Jewish life, meet new friends, and practice their leadership skills. The Zachs
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
Hillel Center is located on the lower level of University Commons, behind Hawk’s Nest. The University of Hartford’s full-time Director of
Jewish Student Life and Manager of Programming and Engagement are available for counseling or to simply be a friendly face on
campus. For information about our daily and weekly programs, follow us on Instagram @uharthillel, email us at Hillel@hartford.edu, or
call 860-768-7956.
Residential Life
Living on campus is an important part of students’ University of Hartford educational experience. National studies have shown college
students who live on campus have higher grade point averages, are more involved in campus activities, take advantage of more
campus resources, and are more likely to graduate than those who live off campus.
The Office of Residential Life (ORL) is committed to providing undergraduate and graduate students with an intentional on-campus
housing experience that promotes academic and social success. The ORL does this by creating opportunities for residential students to
make connections with other residential students, become actively involved in their residential and campus community, and live
according to the shared values of the University of Hartford.
To maintain a strong community with an atmosphere conducive to academic excellence, there are policies and procedures. These
policies and procedures encourage personal accountability and responsibility to ensure every student has a recognized and rightful
place in their community.
Housing Information
Students who plan to live on-campus must complete a Housing Application annually. The Housing Application is completed
electronically through the StarRez housing portal. Additional information about the application process, including deadlines, is
available on the Housing website.
Students must complete a Housing Agreement annually as part of the Housing Application process. The Housing Agreement is entered
into and between the University and student (or student’s parent or legal guardian if they are a minor) subject to the terms and
conditions in this Agreement. The Housing Agreement outlines information about the general terms and conditions, duration of
agreement, and dates of occupancy; housing assignments; fees and charges; the housing requirement; the meal plan requirement; the
residential housing cancellation policy; release from agreement; termination of agreement; housing policies and procedures; resident
health and safety; and other miscellaneous information. The Housing Agreement is signed electronically through the StarRez housing
portal. Students can view their completed Agreement in the Housing Portal at any time.
The ORL offers a variety of different housing options including traditional residence halls, suites, and apartments, as well as single and
double-occupancy bedrooms. Information regarding housing options for first year, returning and transfer, and graduate students is
available on the Housing website.
The University uses email as the official and preferred method of communication.
Office Services
The ORL offers a number of different services. Students, families, community members and conference housing guests should contact
the ORL for assistance with, as well as any questions regarding the following:
• Student move-in/move-out
• Medical housing
• Lock-outs
• Lost or broken key(s)
• Card access to residential spaces
• Housing selection and assignments
• Roommate and community conflicts
• Room changes
• Residential guests
• Health & safety inspections
• Community development activities and programs
• Residential Life Programming Committee (RLPC)
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
• Space reservations in or around a residential area
• Student and residential community concerns
• Yellow moving carts Space reservations in or around a residential area
• Summer conference housing
• Other Housing-related questions
Office Information
Office Location: Lower level of F Neighborhood (Barnard Hall)
Office Phone Number: 860.768.7792
Office Email: ResLife@hartford.edu
Residential Life Policies
Students living in residence refers to the designated living space or housing unit where a student resides and can include the
following various living arrangements: traditional double or single occupancy rooms, apartment style units that include multiple
bedrooms, shared living room, kitchen, and bathrooms within the unit, and suite style units that may include single or double style
rooms with a shared bathroom and common area within the unit.
Students who live on-campus agree to read and comply with all rules, regulations, policies, and addendums set forth in The Source, and
on the University website, as well as any documentation provided by the ORL. Students who violate these may be referred to the
Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution. Students found responsible are subject to the disciplinary sanctions outlined in The
Source. In addition, some forms of misconduct (possession of illegal drugs, etc.) also violate state and federal laws and Public Safety
may involve local law enforcement.
Air Conditioning
Students cannot install air conditioning units in Regents Park, Park River, Hawk Hall, or A-F neighborhoods.
Students living in the Village Apartments (VAs) are permitted to bring and use standing air conditioning units as long as they meet the
following requirements.
• Units must be portable (no window mounted units), UL approved, self-evaporating and under 12,000 BTUs.
• Units must be installed properly and plugged into the designated outlet(s) in the apartment.
• Units must be cleaned and maintained regularly.
• Units are only used Apr. 1 – Oct. 31. Units must be removed from VA windows and stored in the housing unit Nov. 1 – Mar.
31.
Window air conditioning units are not permitted anywhere on campus.
Students are responsible for any damage associated with the installation and/or use of standing air conditioning units. Any air
conditioner units that do not meet these requirements may be confiscated.
Alcohol Storage & Consumption in ‘Mixed-Age’ Rooms
A ‘mixed age’ room is where students who are 21 years of age or older and students who are under 21 years of age are assigned to the
same room, suite, and/or apartment. Students who are 21 years of age or older cannot provide alcohol to room/suite/apartmentmates who are under 21 years of age. Students who are under 21 years of age cannot possess or consume alcohol.

Storage of Alcohol
• Traditional residence halls: alcohol must be stored on the side of the room belonging to the student who is 21 years of age or
older.
• Suites and apartments: alcohol must be stored in the bedroom, and when applicable also the side of the bedroom, belonging
to any students who are 21 years of age or older. Alcohol cannot be stored in common living spaces, including refrigerators.
Consumption of Alcohol
• Open containers should not exceed the number of those present who are 21 years of age or older.
Alterations & Damages
Students cannot move or remove University-owned property from any area the ORL has designated for the property’s specific use.
This includes, but is not limited to, removing window screens and moving lounge furniture. Students must also obtain written consent
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
from the ORL before making any change or alteration to residential spaces. This includes, but is not limited to, adding or changing any
lock, dismantling, disassembling, or changing in any way equipment or furniture, altering any heating device or light fixture, painting
any surface, installing any antenna or satellite dish, and placing, affixing, or attaching any article to any floor, wall, ceiling, furniture, or
fixture.
Bicycles & Scooters
Bicycles and scooters must be stored in student rooms or in bicycle racks. If stored in a student room, they cannot impede student
egress. They cannot be stored in the breezeways of the Village quads, or any public space (lounges, basements, stairwells, etc.) in
residential areas. Bicycles and scooters cannot be ridden in any residential building. It is strongly recommended students keep bicycles
and scooters locked at all times, as well as register bicycles and scooters with Public Safety.
Cleaning, Waste Removal, & Organic Growth
Students are responsible for cleaning and removing waste – trash and recycling, from their assigned housing unit. This includes storing
and disposing of food properly to prevent insect and pest infestation. Students are responsible for providing their own cleaning
supplies (paper towels, broom, etc.). Students in suites and apartments are responsible for cleaning common spaces (living room,
bathroom, kitchen, etc.) and providing their own bathroom supplies (soap, toilet paper, etc.). Aramark Facilities regularly cleans
entryways, hallways, and other common spaces in residential areas, as well as the shared bathrooms in Hawk Hall and A-F
Neighborhoods.
Under no circumstances may students leave waste in entryways, hallways, stairways or landings, or outside; students who do not
immediately dispose of waste in designated dumpsters and recycling receptacles will be assessed a fine of $100 and will be charged for
the removal of the waste.
Students acknowledge that all University of Hartford facilities are in a geographic area with a climate conducive to the organic growth
of mold and mildew. Due to various environmental conditions, students acknowledge the possibility of moisture, mold, or mildew
developing in their residence. Students further recognize that their maintenance practices may contribute to or exacerbate the
presence of moisture, mold, and mildew. As such, students must take all reasonable and necessary steps to prevent conditions that
may cause organic growth, such as mold or mildew, in their living space which includes the following acknowledgements and
agreements:
• Students acknowledge the importance of keeping their living space clean and taking other measures to prevent mold and
mildew accumulation in and around their living spaces.
• Students agree to regularly clean and dust their living space and promptly remove any visible moisture accumulation on
windows, walls, and other surfaces.
• Students agree to promptly report any evidence of water intrusion, moisture accumulation, mildew or mold in any area of their
living space to the University via Facilities TMA work order system. Failure to report such issues promptly may result in repair
costs being billed to the student's account and/or removal from housing.
• Students are responsible for not obstructing ventilation in their living spaces.
• Students are responsible for taking appropriate measures to protect their personal property.
• Students agree to defend, hold harmless, and indemnify the University from any claims, causes of action, or complaints by third
parties (i.e., individuals who are not part of this Agreement) related to any personal injury, property damage, or other damages
allegedly caused, entirely or in part, by exposure to moisture, mold, and/or mildew due to any negligent act or omission on the
part of the student.
• Students understand the University is not responsible for damage to students' living space or personal property caused by mold
or mildew.
• Students understand they will be held responsible for any damage to the premises and their personal property, and for any
personal injury resulting from their failure to comply with this policy.
Decorations
Students can decorate housing units and common areas, provided decorations do not restrict access to and from these public areas.
Decorations cannot be attached to or interfere with light fixtures, smoke detectors, sprinkler heads, (maintain a clearance of at least 18
inches below the sprinkler head) sprinkler pipes and exit signs. Items cannot be affixed to the ceiling or fire doors. Only 25% of each
room/suite/apartment door may be covered and coverings cannot be flammable [see definition below] or impede egress. Decorations
or wall coverings must be affixed using wall safe products such as 3M strips, hooks, and wall safe adhesives that do not remove paint.
String lights, strip lights or copper lights (‘Christmas lights’) are not allowed to be attached to any university wall/ceiling regardless of
the type of adhesive used to hang the lights. Any removal of paint or damage to walls will be billed to the student. For the health and
safety of our community, students cannot paint or cover:
• the windows in an assigned room with any decorations (such as flags, posters, tapestries etc.),
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
• common area doors, and common area walls.
No live or cut trees are allowed in residential areas; artificial trees are permitted.
Driving on Walkways & Service Roads
Walkways and service/emergency accesses located in front of the residence halls are off limits to all but service vehicles. Vehicles in
these areas are subject to ticketing or towing by Public Safety.
Flammable Materials
Flammable liquids are not permitted in any residential areas. Cloth and other flammable materials may not be hung on walls or
ceilings. Flammable or wet materials may not be hung above heaters due to fire hazard. Storing or possessing gasoline, including
gasoline-powered machines, or other combustibles or explosive chemicals, fireworks, candles, incense, oil lamps, oil warmers, or other
flammables is not allowed in any residential area. Producing an open flame in or around the residence halls is not permitted. Grills that
are used for outdoor grilling are not allowed in, near, or around the residence halls due to fire codes in Hartford and West Hartford.
Unauthorized grills will be confiscated and discarded. A member of the Residential Life staff or Public Safety will address fire code
violations.
Furnishings & Room Use
Each housing unit has a university issued bed, mattress, desk, desk chair, drawers or shelves, and closet space for each resident. Suites
and apartments are fully furnished and contain dining and living room furniture. Furnishings provided must remain in the assigned
housing unit at all times.
Guests
Students must abide by the Residential Life Guest Policy and are responsible for the actions of guests (other current residential or
commuter students) in their housing unit and building, as well as the actions of guests who are not members of the University
community anywhere on campus.
Health & Safety Inspections
Students are expected to reasonably maintain their assigned living space and common areas relative to order, cleanliness, and safety.
The ORL or University employees will conduct regular inspections to examine (or have examined) housing units for compliance with
health and safety standards, as well as to assess the condition of university-owned furniture appliances, and fixtures. Whether
residents are present or not, residential staff will complete a 360-degree view of the residential space. Residential staff will conduct a
plain sight inspection and may ask residents to remove wall coverings, or open any University-issued appliances, cabinets, or drawers if
circumstances suggest this is necessary to complete a thorough inspection. These inspections may be unannounced.
Prohibited items and other health and safety hazards in plain view during inspections may be confiscated from students’ living spaces
by Residential Life team members or Public Safety without a search permit. Items that are confiscated will be stored, destroyed, or
discarded, as appropriate. A notice will be left anytime items are confiscated with instructions on how to claim eligible item(s).
Students will be held financially accountable for the repair or replacement cost of any damage to their living space or furnishings
therein. If a room/common area/bathroom is found to be unsanitary during an inspection, students may be billed for excessive
cleaning, remediation of space, including the moving of student belongings or the removal of student belongings/trash left behind.
When two or more students occupy the same housing unit and responsibility cannot be determined, the cleaning/damage charge will
be assessed equally among the students.
Keys
The ORL issues the appropriate key(s) [key card for Hawk Hall residents] to a student’s housing unit at the time of move-in. The key(s)
must be returned at the time of move-out. Keys may not be duplicated, nor transferred, loaned, or given to other persons. Lost keys
should be reported immediately to the ORL. Failure to return the issued key(s) will result in a lock change fee.
Locking & Propping Doors
All room/suite/apartment, entrance and hallway doors must be closed and locked at all times. Propping open or failing to lock any door
is prohibited. Tampering with or disabling door latches or striker plates, electronic door security devices (card readers, keyless entry,
prop monitors, etc.) is also prohibited.
Offensive Odors
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
An offensive odor is an odor or aroma of such intensity that it becomes apparent and is bothersome to others. Any odor (perfume, airfreshening spray, food, large amounts of dirty laundry, body odor, etc.) can become offensive when it is too strong. The ORL will
address offensive odors when complaints are received.
Pets
Pets are not permitted in housing units, with the exception of non-lethal fish in 20-gallon or less aquariums. No other pets or animals
are permitted at any time, even for a brief visit.
Additional information regarding assistance animals can be found on the Access-Ability Services website.
Permitted & Prohibited Items
See the What to Bring section on the Move-In Information webpage for information regarding items permitted and prohibited in
residential spaces.
Quiet & Courtesy Hours
Students are responsible for maintaining a residential environment that is conducive to study and sleep.
Quiet hours are in effect Sunday–Thursday 10 p.m.–10 a.m. and Friday–Saturday 1 a.m.–10 a.m. 24-hour quiet hours are in effect
during final exam periods each semester, beginning Study Day until halls close for the semester.
Courtesy hours are in effect 24 hours a day. Students are expected to comply with reasonable requests to reduce or minimize the noise
they are making. Musical instruments that make noise should not be played in rooms/suites/apartments. Stereos should not be
amplified to outside areas.
Resident Property Loss/Liability
The University assumes no legal obligation for damage, theft, or loss of personal property. Students are strongly encouraged to:
• Obtain appropriate renter’s/personal liability insurance (i.e. GradGuard)
• Not bring items of extraordinary financial or sentimental value to campus
• Maintain an inventory of all personal belongings and applicable serial numbers
Roofs & Exterior Walls
Students are prohibited from accessing roofs, throwing items onto the roof of any building, and climbing or scaling exterior building
walls.
Room Entry
The University respects and appreciates a resident’s right to privacy. A student’s room/suite/apartment is considered their private
domain and will not be entered without permission, except in the following circumstances:
• If there is reason to believe that a threat to the health, welfare, or safety or any person or property exists.
• Enforcement of University policies as stated in The Source and on the University website, as well as any documentation
provided by the ORL
• Performance of maintenance/custodial services and inspections
• Health and Safety Inspections
• Closing inspections each semester (Thanksgiving, Winter Break, Spring Break, May Closing)
• When a search permit is issued for the search and/or seizure of property
• For nuisance noise (e.g., alarm clock, unattended music, etc.)
After a work request is submitted, facilities department staff will enter the space to conduct the work. Facilities staff typically complete
work in student rooms Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.– 4:30 p.m., except in emergency situations.
Facilities staff will not move personal belongings unless it is necessary to complete the work. Students should move/remove all
belongings around the area to be repaired and notify their room/suite-/apartment-mates when a work request has been submitted.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
Student rooms may be entered without consent when there is a reason to believe an emergency condition exists. Authorized
personnel will enter to protect the health or safety of persons, to make emergency repairs to university facilities, and/or to avoid
damage to university and student property.
Closed areas, such as closets and drawers may be opened during the execution of a Search Permit
During break periods, the University reserves the right to inspect, maintain, and make repairs in residence hall rooms. In addition, the
University reserves the right to replace damaged or obsolete furniture and to remove from the room, without the occupant’s
permission, any objects or materials which constitute a safety or sanitation hazard or are University property.
Safety Equipment, Fire Alarms & Fire Drills
Tampering with, obstructing, or affixing objects to fire equipment (sprinklers, detectors, alarms, etc.), hydrant valves, building systems
pipes, exit signs, fire extinguishers or activating a false alarm is prohibited. Access to fire exit doors must never be blocked and
automatic closure mechanisms must not be propped open. No object of any sort may be placed or stored in entryways, stairwells,
corridors, exit ways, or any other location where it might obstruct immediate access to a fire door or exit. This includes tripping
hazards such as rugs or telephone and extension cords.
Students must exit immediately and may not re-enter the building without the direction of authorized University personnel when an
alarm sounds. The University conducts fire drills once a semester.
Search Permits & Confiscated Items
A Search Permit must be secured before a search may be conducted of a resident’s housing unit by appropriate University staff, in
enforcing any regulation or policy that is included in The Source, and on the University website, as well as any documentation provided
by the ORL. A Search Authorization Form will be completed for each housing unit being searched. Closed areas, such as closets and
drawers may be opened during the execution of a Search Permit. Any item in violation of any regulation or policy that is found is
subject to documentation and may be confiscated, even if it was not the initial reason for the search. Items that are confiscated will be
stored, destroyed, or discarded, as appropriate. A notice will be left anytime items are confiscated with instructions on how to claim
eligible item(s). Eligible items not claimed by May 31 will be discarded.
University Property (Loss and/or Damaged)
Students are liable for any damage to university property and are responsible for paying to restore property to its original condition,
except in the event of a natural disaster, even when not present in their room. If it is unclear who damaged items, all the occupants of
a room/suite/apartment will be billed for a share of the repair or replacement. Property belonging to the University must not be
moved or taken from areas designated for its specific use, including but not limited to mattresses. Any damage or cleaning costs not
attributed to a specific individual(s) will be shared by all residents assigned to the housing unit/area/floor. It is the responsibility of all
students in conjunction with staff to report damage to RDs, RAs, and/or Public Safety as soon as possible.
Vaccination Requirement
Students are required to submit proof of any required vaccinations and boosters (meningitis, MMR, Varicella, etc.). Proof of
vaccination, or immunization exemption should be uploaded to the Health Services portal before moving into housing. See the
Immunization and Health Forms webpage for more information.
Windows & Security Screens
Throwing or dropping any item from, entering or exiting a room/suite/apartment, and hanging anything inside or outside of a window
is prohibited. Screens (including security) cannot be removed and must be closed and locked at all times. Students will be held
responsible for the cost of any damage to windows and/or screens.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
STUDENT ACADEMIC CONDUCT
Academic Honesty Policy
A University is a community of learners. Learners at the University of Hartford consist of students, faculty and staff, seeking academic
and personal advancement. Academic and personal advancement is based on honest intellectual endeavors and the resulting creative
achievement. Integrity in those endeavors is the foundation upon which that advancement is built. While inspiration and insight spring
forth from the work of others, the work product must always be one’s own. One’s sense of integrity requires that proper credit be given
where credit is due.
The purpose of the academic honesty policy is to provide a clear statement to students and faculty of the University’s expectations
regarding academic honesty and to set forth procedures for the enforcement of that policy. The items listed in the policy below are
exemplar and not intended to be exhaustive. The procedures in this Academic Honesty Policy are administrative functions and are not
subject to the same rules as in criminal or civil proceedings.
Throughout the following policy, the term “college” refers to any one of the schools or colleges of the University. The term “Universitywide program” refers to programs such as Multi Media Web Design and Development or the Bachelor of University Studies that do not
reside in a college. The term “department chair” refers to a department chair or, in the case of colleges that do not have departments,
the equivalent to a department chair.
Promotion and Support of Integrity
Members of the community should support the general culture of integrity at the University of Hartford by maintaining an atmosphere
of honesty and integrity on campus, and by talking about the value of integrity to one's educational experience and individual
development.
Faculty members have a unique opportunity to promote the policy. They are encouraged to do so by:
• Including a description of the Academic Honesty Policy and other materials promoting academic integrity on each course syllabus.
• Discussing and reviewing the importance of academic honesty and integrity with students, and reminding students that they
must do their own work.
• Providing to students in writing the requirements and expectations for each academic assignment, including what practices and
resources are authorized, including generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools, to help students avoid inadvertent academic
integrity violations.
Student’s Role:
• Students are expected to take personal responsibility for their intellectual work and to respect and acknowledge the ideas of
others. Academic honesty means doing one’s own work and giving proper credit to others whose work and thoughts are drawn
upon. It is the responsibility of each student to become familiar with what constitutes academic dishonesty and to avoid all forms
of cheating and plagiarism including the unsanctioned use of generative AI.
• Students may not engage in any form of academic misconduct and are responsible for learning how to present the ideas of others
in their own work and avoid all other forms of academic misconduct. For current documentation practices, consult the instructor
or a style manual (e.g., APA, MLA).
• It is the responsibility of each student to be literate in the ethical and effective use of AI, disclose the use of AI in all coursework,
and abide by specific AI usage policies outlined in any departmental and collegiate policies and each course syllabus. Students
are responsible for the accuracy and perspective of all submitted work.
Policy
The following acts, when committed by a student either in an online/virtual class or in-person class, shall constitute academic
dishonesty:
Cheating: Cheating includes the intentional use of unauthorized materials, information, notes, study aids or other devices or
materials in any academic exercise, or attempts thereof. The following list of behaviors that constitute cheating should not be
regarded as all inclusive:
• Receiving unauthorized assistance during an exam, consulting materials not sanctioned by the professor and made
available to the whole class during an assessment or copying information from another student’s response
• The acquisition, possession, or use of improperly obtained examinations, assignments, or papers completed by another
person
• The receiving of unauthorized information related to an examination
• The use of another person as a substitute, or acting as a substitute, in any exam or academic evaluation
• Submitting material from generative AI without proper citation or where the use of AI is prohibited.
Plagiarism: Plagiarism includes the copying of the language, structure, programming, computer code, ideas, and/or thoughts of
another person or system (e.g. generative AI) and passing off the same as one's own original work, or attempts thereof. It also
includes submitting the work of another person, in whole or in part, no matter how it was obtained, as one’s own, or the use of
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
unauthorized sources in the preparation of an assignment. The following standards should guide the practice of the proper
citation of sources:
• The source of every quotation, paraphrase, or statement of fact that is not common knowledge must be acknowledged
by a footnote or in-text citation.
• Direct quotations must be enclosed in quotation marks and must faithfully and exactly reproduce the wording of the
original.
• Paraphrases may not reproduce any of the language of the original source. They must be rewritten entirely in the
student’s own words so that no part of the source’s own language remains. Failure to do this is the most common form
of plagiarism.
• Any sequence of ideas drawn from a particular source must be accompanied by an appropriate citation that
acknowledges the source’s intellectual contribution.
• In general, acts of plagiarism that show evidence of an intent to deceive will be treated as more serious offences than
those that are the result of unintentional error.
Falsification: Falsification includes the statement of any untruth, either verbally or in writing, with respect to any element of
one's academic work, or attempts thereof.
Fabrication: Fabrication includes making up data and results, and recording or reporting them, or submitting fabricated
documents, or attempts thereof.
Multiple Submission: Multiple submission involves the submission for credit – without authorization from the instructor
receiving the work – of substantial portions of any work (including oral reports) previously submitted for credit at any academic
institution or in another course at the University of Hartford, or attempts thereof.
Facilitating Academic Dishonesty: Facilitation can include intentionally helping another person to engage in an act of academic
misconduct, or attempts thereof.
Acts of dishonesty not addressed in this policy may be referred to the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution.
Procedure for a Violation of the Honesty Policy
If an instructor becomes aware of a violation, the following procedures shall be followed:
Step 1.
The complainant (instructor or University official) must present the charge and evidence to the student in private conference within ten
working days* of the discovery of the alleged violation. The private conference should be in person whenever possible, but when
necessary, by electronic means. During this conference, the instructor decides at their discretion whether to pursue an informal or a
formal resolution. This determination will be made based on the complainant’s judgment about the intentionality and impact of the
action. It should be noted that it is the complainant’s discretion to follow an informal or formal resolution process.
The informal resolution process is appropriate for any violation that was a result of a genuine misunderstanding and/or appropriately
minor. An example of what may lead to an informal resolution is unintentional plagiarism due to not citing on a first writing assignment
in the course requiring the use of external sources. Another example might be a student copying part of the work of another student on
a first assignment on which collaboration is allowed but student writing is expected to be independent. Informal resolutions will occur
between the complainant and student and will include an educational intervention (e.g., student will rewrite the paper) and may include
a grading penalty. Informal resolutions will not be documented beyond the instructor files. If the student is not compliant with the terms
of an informal resolution, the complainant may seek a formal resolution.
The formal resolution process is appropriate for any violation reflecting intentionality and/or a significant impact. If a faculty member is
considering a formal resolution, they should consult with their chair or director as appropriate. Formal complaints will be documented
by the instructor using a University reporting form. This reporting form will be kept in a confidential database in the provost’s office. If
the complaints are resolved between the complainant and the accused, the reporting form will include the educational intervention
(e.g., student rewrites a paper, student completes an academic honesty course, etc.) and grade-associated penalty assigned by the
instructor (such a penalty cannot exceed a failing grade in the course.) Students receiving the penalty of a failing grade during the
withdrawal period will not be allowed to drop the course to avoid the grading penalty. Once a resolution is agreed upon, the college
Academic Standing Committee (ASC) Chair will review to see if there were prior cases. If so, the ASC may impose a stronger course of
action as described in Step 8.b.iii below. This action of the ASC must be completed within 10 working days of the formal resolution being
agreed upon by both complainant and student.
Step 2.
If Step 1 does not resolve the situation, then the accused, may file a written appeal to the chair of the unit in which the course is taught
or with the director of the relevant University-wide program within ten working days. A meeting is held with the department chair,
complainant, and accused within ten working days. The meeting should be in person whenever possible, but when necessary, by
electronic means. If the complainant is the department chair, then the meeting is held with the Dean of the unit in which the course is
taught or the director of the relevant University-wide program.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
Step 3.
If this meeting does not resolve the situation, then the accused, may file a written appeal with the Dean of the unit in which the course
is taught or with the director of the relevant University-wide program within ten working days. The Dean or Director shall ensure that
both parties receive copies of the appeal as soon as possible. If the student is matriculated in a college or in a University-wide program
other than that in which the violation occurs, a written copy of the appeal shall be sent to the Dean of the college of matriculation or
Director of the program of matriculation.
Step 4.
The Dean or Director of a University-wide program with whom the appeal is filed shall call for a meeting of the College Academic Standing
Committee (ASC) to be held within twenty working days of receiving the appeal. When applicable, the University-wide program
Curriculum Committee, shall function as an ASC.
Step 5.
The Academic Standing Committee, having received the written complaint from the Dean or Director of a University-wide program, shall:
(a) inform both parties in writing five working days prior to the meeting of the time, date, place of the meeting, and
(b) invite the Associate Vice President of the Division of Student Success, and the appropriate College Dean(s), and/or the
Director of the University wide program (when relevant) to attend, (with voice but not vote).
(c) Inform both parties that they may bring witnesses to the ASC meeting.
Step 6.
For the ASC meeting, the student shall have the right to select a meeting aide. If the student chooses to have a meeting aide, it is the
student’s responsibility to inform the chair of the college ASC, and to inform the meeting aide of the date and time of the ASC meeting.
The meeting aide shall not be licensed in the field of law, shall be a current member of the University community (limited to faculty,
staff, and students), and not otherwise be involved in the case. The meeting aide shall not address the committee or otherwise directly
participate, but the student may request a short recess to consult the meeting aide.
Step 7.
The ASC Meeting:
(a) No member of the committee who is otherwise involved in the alleged violation shall sit in judgment during the meeting.
(b) The meeting shall be closed to all non-participants.
(c) Both parties shall be afforded the opportunity to speak, to present evidence and witnesses, and to hear and question
adverse witnesses.
(d) The committee’s recommendation must be made within ten working days of the initial ASC meeting to the appropriate
Dean or Director of a University-wide program.
(e) All of the proceedings pursuant to the investigation of an alleged violation shall be carried forward in a confidential
manner. There shall be no general announcement of the identity of the student(s) charged with the violation, or of the
recommendation of the committee.
Step 8.
After duly investigating the reports received, hearing the statements of the accused and such other persons as may testify, and hearing
other relevant evidence, the ASC shall recommend:
(a) that the charges be dismissed or upheld
(b) If upheld, the student is considered guilty of the alleged violation by a preponderance of the evidence. At this point, ASC
will contact the Provost’s Office to see if there were previous documented cases of academic misconduct for the student.
If so, the ASC will take that into consideration when discussing an action.
After deliberation, one or more of the following actions will be taken:
i. the instructor’s penalty shall be upheld.
ii. the instructor’s penalty shall be modified and reduced (for example, from an “F” in the course to “0%” on the
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
assignment.)
iii. the instructor’s penalty shall be modified and increased. The new penalty may be (but not limited to):
A) the student be restricted from dropping the course with a W and be required to receive the grade assigned for
the credit received.
B) the student be assigned a grade of “0%” for the specific assignment.
C) the student be assigned a grade of “F” for the entire course.
D) the student be suspended:
(1) for the remainder of the current semester, losing credit for the current academic program, or
(2) for the following semester or year
E) the student be dismissed from the University, and the dismissal be entered on the student’s permanent
academic record (transcript original), maintained by the Registrar.
Step 9.
The chair of the ASC Committee shall present the recommendation in writing to the Dean or University-wide Program Director who
convened the committee, the student, the original complainant, the Dean of the student’s college of matriculation or the Director of the
University-wide program where the misconduct occurred.
The Dean of the student’s college of matriculation or the Director of the student’s University-wide program of matriculation shall be
responsible for seeing that the recommendation is carried out, subject to the student’s right of appeal set forth in Step 10, below. The
Dean or Director shall also provide the student’s academic advisor with a confidential report of the recommendation and action taken.
In the case of non-matriculated students, the Dean, or the Director of the course where the misconduct occurred shall be responsible
for seeing that the recommendation is carried out subject to the student’s right of appeal.
Step 10. - Appeal to the Provost:
If the student finds the action unacceptable, the student may appeal to the provost within five working days after notification. The chair
of the ASC shall forward the recommendation and all relevant material to the provost for consideration and action. Appeals will be
considered only on the following bases:
(a) the existence of newly discovered evidence not available at the time of the hearing/decision.
(b) the imposition of an unreasonable penalty or sanction.
(c) a substantive violation, mistake, or error in the procedures established herein has occurred, which would have significantly
altered the outcome of the meeting provided for above. The provost may request additional information from the
appellant and may exercise any of the following options: affirm, modify, or reverse any part of the original decision;
however, no modifications may be made so as to increase the sanction of penalty.
Appeals from Academic Decisions
a. Appeals relating to the decisions of an instructor(s) in the implementation of an academic policy can be made only
on the grounds of alleged unjust or capricious action on the part of an instructor.
b. Steps in the Appeals Process:
Step 1: The student must contact the instructor (in person, by phone, or by electronic means) to discuss the
issue in question, stating the grounds for the appeal and presenting evidence to support the
grounds. This must be completed within ten working days* after notification of the academic
decision during a semester, and within ten working days after notification at the end of a semester.
Step 2: The instructor upon receiving an appeal of an academic decision from a student has ten working
days to respond.
Step 3: If the situation is not resolved with the instructor, the student may request a meeting with the
department chair or designee of the unit in which the course is taught (in person, by phone, or by
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
electronic means) within ten working days. This meeting must occur within ten working days of the
student’s request for a meeting.
Step 4: The chair, or designee of the unit in which the course is taught, has five working days from the meeting
to make a determination and inform the student.
Step 5: If the situation is still not resolved, the student may submit a written appeal with supporting
evidence to the dean (or designee) of the college in which the course is taught. This must occur
within ten working days after the student is informed of the department chair’s (or designee’s)
decision. The dean within ten working days shall decide whether the appeal warrants further
investigation. If the dean decides that no further appeal is warranted, no further appeal is allowed.
Step 6: If the dean decides the appeal warrants further investigation, the appeal and evidence shall go to
the Academic Standing Committee (ASC) of the college or program in which the course was taught at
the next regularly scheduled meeting of ASC. The ASC meets (when necessary, by electronic means),
and reviews the appeal by hearing the evidence presented by the student and the faculty member.
Both are invited to meet with the ASC to respond to questions on the issues, whenever possible in
person or if necessary via electronic means. The dean of students or designee may be invited to
attend by either the student or ASC with voice but no vote.
Step 7: For the ASC meeting, the student shall have the right to select a meeting advisor. The meeting
advisor shall not be licensed in the field of law, shall be a current member of the University
community (limited to faculty, staff, and students), and not otherwise involved in the case. The
meeting advisor shall not address the committee or otherwise directly participate, but the accused
may request a short recess to consult the meeting advisor.
Step 8: After hearing the appeal, the ASC shall submit a report and recommendations to the dean within
five working days. The committee shall make the final determination of the case. The Dean informs
the parties of the decision in a timely manner. No further appeal is allowed.
*Working Days: For the purposes of this policy, working days are defined as days the University is open to conduct the work of the
University, Monday through Friday. It excludes, therefore, days Monday through Friday in which the University is closed due to holidays or
inclement weather.
If a student believes that an appeal from academic decision has not been addressed appropriately after completing each applicable
step described above, then the student may direct a complaint to one or more of the following:
The Connecticut Office of Higher Education: 450 Columbus Boulevard, Suite 707, Hartford, CT 06103-1841; (860)947-1800;
https://www.ohe.ct.gov/StudentComplaints.shtml; and
New England Commission of Higher Education:301 Edgewater Place, Suite 210, Wakefield, MA 01880;
https://www.neche.org/contact/; (781) 425-7785
Appeals to Actions Taken in the Event of Less than Satisfactory Academic Progress.
Decisions to place students on probation, remove from degree program, remove from degree candidacy, or academically dismiss them
are appealable according to the following rules and procedures. Responsibility for initiating the appeal in a timely fashion and in
accordance with procedures outlined below lies with the student. Colleges will notify students in writing within ten working days*
after the end of a semester of the decisions to place or continue on probation, removal from degree program, removal from degree
candidacy, or to dismiss. After the end of the fall semester, ten working days begins the first working day after January 1; after the end
of the spring semester, ten working days begins on the Monday after Commencement weekend.
1. Basis for Appeals: Students may appeal these actions only on the basis of procedural irregularities or on the basis of
mitigating circumstances. Appeals based on mitigating circumstances should include explanations of the
circumstances, a description of their effect on performance, and discussion of the actions taken to minimize or
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
eliminate these circumstances and their effects.
2. Procedures for Appeals:
Step 1: An appeal must be made in writing to the dean of the college or designee within seven working days
after notification and should be accompanied by appropriate documentation.

Step 2: The dean of the college or designee refers the appeal to the academic standing committee of the
college within five working days.
Step 3: Following review of the materials, the ASC will hold a closed hearing at the next regularly scheduled
ASC meeting. The student is invited to meet with ASC to respond to questions. The dean of students
or designee may be invited to attend by either the student or ASC with voice but no vote.
Step 4: Following the hearing, the ASC shall either sustain or rescind the action. The Dean or designee will
inform the student of ASC’s decision within five working days. There shall be no further appeal from
decisions to place students on probation or to remove from degree candidacy. Decisions by ASC on
appeals of dismissal may be appealed to the provost.
Step 5: Appeals of dismissal must be made within seven working days of notification by the Dean, and only on
the basis of procedural irregularities or on the basis of mitigating circumstances.
Step 6: The provost shall sustain the College ASC or rescind the dismissal within seven working days. There is
no further appeal to dismissal.
*Working Days: For the purposes of this policy, working days are defined as days the University is open to conduct the work of the University,
Monday through Friday. It excludes, therefore, days Monday through Friday in which the University is closed due to holidays or inclement
weather.
If a student believes that an appeal from an action taken in the event of less than satisfactory academic progress has not
been addressed appropriately after completing each applicable step described above, then the student may direct a
complaint to one or more of the following:
 The Connecticut Office of Higher Education: 450 Columbus Boulevard, Suite 707, Hartford, CT 06103-1841; (860)947-
1800; https://www.ohe.ct.gov/StudentComplaints.shtml; and
New England Commission of Higher Education:301 Edgewater Place, Suite 210, Wakefield, MA 01880;
https://www.neche.org/contact/; (781) 425-7785
Courses Repeated
1. A course normally can be retaken only once, except when a course is designed to be taken repeatedly. For courses
not designed to be taken repeatedly, a student may request permission from Academic Standing Committee (ASC)
of the college offering the course to repeat a course a second time under the terms of the repeat course policy. An
appeal to a college’s ASC may be made on the grounds of mitigating circustances, and should include explanations
of the circumstances, a description of their effect on performance, and discussion of the actions taken to minimize
or eliminate these circumstances and their effects.
2. The following repeat course policy applies only to University of Hrtford courses, and not transfer credits. Approved
transfer credits can be accepted to fulfill a program requirement, but the grades do not transfer in and will not affect
the GPA. The original Hartford grade will still be included in the GPA calculation.
However, when a summer or winter course necessary to meet program GPA requirements or scholarship
requirements is not offered online or in person at the University of Hartford, an exception might be granted to
improve students’ standing. In these cases, the student will complete a “permit for transfer credit form” and have it
approved pior to taking the course, and when the transfer course comes in,:
a. the course’s original Hartford grade and credits from the GPA and credit calculation will be excluded;
b. the new credits for the transfer course will be included in the overall credit count.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
The new transfer course grade will not be factored into the University overall GPA calculation, but the dean’s office
may use the grade from a transferred course in their own internal calculations and assessment of program GPA as
well as overall GPA. Such changes will not be reflected on the student’s transcript.
In the case of repeated courses, only the grade most recently earned (subject to the limitations stipulated in #3
following) will be used in the computation of the student's grade point average (GPA) and credits earned. The
previous grade, while remaining on the transcript record, is disregarded in the calculation of grade point average and
credits earned.
3. The first grade received in a repeated course will be disregarded for the purposes of grade point average calculation
only if the second grade received is in the range A through F or P. If any other grade is assigned for the repeated
course, the grade initially earned during the first enrollment period will be used for the purposes of grade point
average calculation.
4. The repeat course policy of allowing a subsequent grade of a course to replace the prior grade for that course cannot
be used for courses where an F has been given due to academic dishonesty, and the grade has been affirmed upon
appeal if the student has chosen to appeal the grade. This policy also does not apply to courses taken for a previously
earned degree (i.e. post-Baccalaureate repeating of courses cannot be used to retroactively modify the GPA at the
time of degree conferral.) To implement these exceptions to the repeat course policy, the Dean of the College or
designee, or director of a University-wide program (a program that does not reside in a school or college such as
University Interdisciplinary Studies in which the course is taught, are required to report to the Registrar all such cases.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
STUDENT CODE OF CONDUCT
I. Introduction
Academic institutions exist for the transmission of knowledge, the pursuit of truth, the development of the whole student,
and the betterment of society. Free inquiry and free expression are indispensable to the attainment of these goals. As
members of the academic community, students should be encouraged to develop the capacity for critical judgment and to
engage in a sustained and independent search for truth. The University strives to maintain an educational community which
fosters the development of students who are ethically sensitive and responsible persons. Thus, the primary goal for the
administration of discipline under the Code is to develop ethically responsible students, as well as to protect the campus
community. Those persons responsible for the administration of this Code shall make reasonable efforts to foster students’
personal and social growth. The purpose of this document is to setforth the specific authority and responsibility of the
University in maintaining social discipline, the educational process in determining student accountability for violating the
regulations, andthe proper procedures to be followed in the process which protects the respondent from unfair impositions
of penalties and sanctions. University of Hartford students are responsible for knowing the information, policies and
procedures outlined in the Student Code of Conduct. The University reserves the right to make changes to this code as
necessary and once those changes are posted online, they are in effect. Students are encouraged to check the University of
Hartford’s website for updated versions of all policies and procedures.
II. Basic Premise
The University has the power and responsibility to take proper disciplinary action against students whose behavior threatens
or disrupts the mission of the University. This is the general principle governing the jurisdiction of the disciplinary authorities
of the University. It means that the disciplinary powers of the University extend to behavior that disrupts the educational
process and other activities that are recognized as the lawful mission of the University. It also means that it extends to
behavior that violates the peace and order of the University in such a manner that members of the University cannot go
about their proper business secure in their persons and property. Behaviors that violate the Code of Student Conduct may
also violate criminal or civil law, and as such may be additionally subject to proceedings under the external justice system.
The Code of Student Conduct in no way precludes a person who incurs damage or injury from seeking redress in the civil or
criminal courts. Students have responsibility for knowing and abiding by the policies of the University.
III. Authority and Responsibility
Daily responsibility for good conduct rests with students as individuals. All members of the University community are
expected to use reasonable judgment in their daily campus life and to show due concern for the welfare and rights of others.
The ultimate responsibility and authority to enforce the Code resides with the President of the University of Hartford. The
President may, and has, delegated responsibility for the administration of the Code of Student Conduct to the Dean of
Students. The Dean of Students, in turn, delegates the authority to authorized and responsible staff for the implementation
and enforcement of the Code of Student Conduct. This responsibility includes formulating and implementing appropriate
policies and procedures, in conjunction with other appropriate University bodies, for the consideration of conduct
complaints, infractions, and the imposition of sanctions in an efficient, consistent, legal, and equitable manner which
supports the University’s educational mission.
The University reserves the right to take necessary and appropriate action to protect the safety and well-being of the campus
community. The Code of Student Conduct was established in accordance with the concept of “due process.” Due process, as
used herein, shall mean generally that the student will be notified of a complaint alleging any violation of the Code of
Conduct; be provided the opportunity to review the complaint; and, be given an opportunity to respond to the complaint
before a decision is rendered. The University retains conduct jurisdiction over students who choose to take a leave of
absence, withdraw, or have graduated, for any misconduct that occurred prior to the leave, withdrawal or graduation
(including during graduation). If sanctioned, a hold may be placed on the student’s ability to re-enroll, conduct certain
transactions and/or participate in University events. All sanctions must be satisfied prior to re-enrollment eligibility. In the
event of serious misconduct committed while still enrolled but reported after the respondent has graduated, the University
may invoke these procedures.
IV. Definitions
A. The term “University” means the University of Hartford.
B. The term ‘‘student” includes all persons taking courses at the University, either full-time or part- time, pursuing
undergraduate or graduate/continuing studies and begins once the person has sent the University their deposit. Persons
are considered ‘students’ (1) until the end of the person’s associated commencement exercise(s) or (2) whenever
representing the University in post-commencement University-sponsored educational programs (i.e., participation in
study abroad, club-sponsored trip, athletics competitions etc.), whichever occurs later. Persons who withdraw after
allegedly violating the Code of Conduct or who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
relationship with the University, are also considered ‘‘students.’’ This Student Code of Conduct applies at all University
locations.
C. The term “faculty member” means any person hired by the University to conduct classroom or teaching activities or who
is otherwise considered by the University to be a member of itsfaculty.
D. The term “University official” includes any person employed by the University,performing assigned administrative or
professional responsibilities.
E. The term “member of the University community” includes any person who is a student, faculty member, University
official or any other person employed by the University. A person’s status in a particular situation shall be determined by
the Executive Director of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution.
F. The term “University premises” includes all land, buildings, facilities, and other property inthe possession of or owned,
used, or controlled by the University (including adjacent streets and sidewalks).
G. The term “organization” means any number of persons who have complied with the formal requirements for University
recognition or registration within a particular College orSchool, Office of Greek Life, and/or by the Student Government
Association (SGA).
H. The term “hearing officer” means a Division of Student Success professional staff member or designee appointed by the
Dean of Students to determine whether a student has violated the Code of Conduct and to recommend and/or impose
sanctions when a Code of Conduct violation has been committed.
I. The term “administrative hearing” means an administrative proceeding implemented to determine responsibility and to
devise appropriate resolutions, as needed. Administrative hearings are conducted with a hearing officer and student(s).
J. The term “Student Conduct Board Hearing” is an administrative proceeding which is implemented to determine
responsibility and devise appropriate resolutions. Student Conduct Board Hearings are comprised of University faculty
and staff who serve as the hearingofficers. The Executive Director of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution, or
designee, will act as the Chair of a Student Conduct Board Hearing.
K. The term “shall” is used in the imperativesense.
L. The term “may” is used in the permissivesense.
M. The Dean of Students or designee and the Executive Director of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution are the persons
designated to be responsible for the administration of the Student Code of Conduct.
N. The term “policy,” “guidelines,” “rules” means the written regulations of the University as found in, but not limited to,
the Student Code of Conduct, The Source, The Bulletin (University Course Catalog), The Housing Agreement, and/or the
University website.
O. The term “cheating” includes, but is not limited to: (1) use of any unauthorized assistance in taking quizzes, tests, or
examinations; (2) use of sources beyond those authorizedby the instructor in writing papers, preparing reports, solving
problems, or carrying out other assignments; (3) the acquisition, without permission, of tests or other academic material
belonging to a member of the University faculty or staff (4) engaging in any behavior specifically prohibited by a faculty
member in the course syllabus or class discussion.
P. The term “plagiarism” includes, but is not limited to, the use, by paraphrase or direct quotation, of the published or
unpublished work of another person without full and clear acknowledgment. It also includes the unacknowledged use of
materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of term papers or other academic materials.
Q. The term “complainant” means any person who submits a complaint alleging that a student violated this Code of
Conduct. When a student believes that s/he has been a victim of another student’s misconduct, the student who
believes s/he has been a victim will have the same rights under this Code of Conduct as are provided to the Complainant,
even if another member of the University community submitted the complaint itself.
R. The term “respondent” means the accused student.
S. The term “Dean of Students” means the University of Hartford Dean of Students orindividual appointed by the President
to serve as a designee.
T. The term ‘day’ refers to a business day, unless otherwise described.
U. The term ‘in writing’ means communication sent via University e-mail or letter via U.S. mail.
V. Code of Conduct Authority
A. The Dean of Students, or designee, shall determine who serves as hearing and appeal officers.
B. The Executive Director of the Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution (OSCCR) shall develop policies for the
administration of the student conduct system and procedural rules for hearings that are consistent with provisions of the
Code of Conduct.
C. Decisions made by hearing officers shall be final, pending the normal appeal process.
VI. Student Conduct Code of Regulations
This section establishes behavioral standards which all students of the University of Hartford are expected to follow. They are
made in any exercise of the powers associated with the University’s duty to protect its educational purposes by setting and
distributing standards of student conduct and scholarship, and by regulating the use of University facilities and premises.
Students have a right to expect enforcement of these regulations. The University also has the right to expect students to
abide by these regulations in a manner that benefits the responsibilities given to students as members of the University
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
community. Knowledge of these regulations can prove most beneficial to students in utilizing and protecting their rights. It is
important to add, however, that unfamiliarity with institutional regulations or rules is not grounds for excusing infractions.
Students have an individual obligation to ensure that the Code of Conduct is followed by taking an active role in reporting
and discussing violations with the appropriate staff, administrator, or committee when they believe an offense has occurred.
The following statements constitute the official record of Student Code of Conduct Regulations at the University of Hartford.
Students are expected to abide by these regulations and administrators are required to enforce them. Additional rules and
regulations may be promulgated from time to time. The Student Code of Conduct also applies to guests of community
members. Hosts of guests may be held accountable for the behavior of their guests.
A student who is found responsible for violation of any Code of Conduct regulation as set forth below shall be subject to the
maximum sanction of Expulsion or any lesser sanction authorized by this Code. The University will exercise jurisdiction to the
extent practical and possible over all cases alleging violations of this Code of Conduct, including on University premises, in
connection with University-sponsored activities (whether on-campus or off-campus), and any conduct that occurs off-campus
if the incident poses a threat to the safety or well-being of any member of the University community, the conduct is likely to
have a substantial effect on a University-community member’s campus life or activities; or the conduct affects a compelling
interest of the University.
A. Student Conduct—Rules and Regulations
Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the disciplinary
sanctions outlined in Article VII, sub-section B. The Student Code of Conduct prohibits the following behaviors:
1. Acts of dishonesty, including but not limited to the following:
a) Cheating, plagiarism, or other forms of academic dishonesty.
b) Knowingly furnishing false information to any University official, faculty member, or office or furnishing false
information about the University to anyone.
c) Forgery, alteration, or misuse of any University document, record, or instrumentofidentification.
2. Disruption or obstruction of classes, seminars, research projects, administration, oractivities of the University willfully,
or through careless disregard of the rights of others.
3. Violation of the University’s: Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy.
4. Actual or threatened physical assault, or physical abuse or injury to persons. Threatened physical assault/abuse
includes, but is not limited to, intimidation and/or conduct which threatens or endangers the physical health or safety of
any person or group. Physical assault/abuse includes, but is not limited to, hitting, kicking, slapping, punching,pushing,
and/or spitting on another person or persons.
5. Threatening harm or criminal activity against persons or property.
6. Harassment and/or abusive behavior toward persons. This includes, but is not limited to:
a. Intimidation, invasion of privacy, verbal abuse, or any conduct constituting harassment, abuse or threats to the wellbeing of a person or group, including, but not limited to, communication via electronic means.
b. Harassment and/or intimidation of persons involved in a campus disciplinary hearing, or of persons of authority
who are in the process of discharging theirresponsibilities.
7. Behavior which is disorderly, or which unnecessarily infringes on the rights of individuals or groups. Such conduct
includes, but is not limited to, unwelcome physical contact, and/or disorderly conduct which is unreasonable for the
area, time, or manner in which it occurs.
8. Violation of the Controlled Substance/Drug Policy.
9. Violation of the Alcohol Policy.
10. Behavior or activities committed intentionally, recklessly, or negligently that either cause physical harm or endanger the
health or safety of any person. This includes, but is not limited to: arson, tampering/damaging or misusing fire
equipment, exit signs, defibrillators, striking others, creating a hazard, intoxication, and other behavior which does, or
could, result in harm.
11. Attempted or actual theft of and/or damage to property of the University or property of a member of the University
community or other personal or public property, on or off campus.
12. Violation of the Hazing Policy.
13. Failure to comply with directions of University officials or law enforcement officers acting in performance of their duties
and/or failure to identify oneself to these persons when requested to do so.
14. Unauthorized possession, duplication or use of keys/University ID card to any University premises or unauthorized entry
to or use of University premises.
15. Unauthorized presence or entry in a University facility or University related premises, and/or the unauthorized
attempted entry into a University facility or University-related premises.
16. False reporting of an emergency including, but not limited to, activating a fire alarm without evidence of fire and/or
false report of a bomb, fire, or other emergency.
17. Violation of the Gambling Policy.
18. Unauthorized use or possession of keys or access cards. No one may use or possess any University key without
authorization by a University staff member. No student is allowed to duplicate a University key or be in possession of
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
more than one access card.
19. Failure to report a violation of the Student Code of Conduct by a student who has witnessed the offense or has reason
to believe that an offense has been committed. Students have an obligation to report or discuss such violations with the
appropriate staff or administrator in a timely manner. Students, however, are not obligated to testify against
themselves.
20. Violation of the Weapons Guidelines, as described in The Source.
21. Rioting, or aiding, abetting, conspiring, encouraging, or participating in a riot.
22. Falsification. Knowingly furnishing or possessing false, falsified or forged materials, documents, accounts, records,
identification or financial instruments. Falsification may include, but is not limited to: knowingly making false statements
to any University staff member in performance of his/her duties, use or possession of a false ID card or, by falsely
identifying oneself as a University staff member.
23. Unauthorized use of the name or insignia of the University by individuals or groups.
24. Misuse of University documents. Including but not limited to: forging, transferring, altering, or otherwise misusing any
student fee card, identification card, course registration material, schedule card, other University identification,
academic record, or any other document or record.
25. Use or attempted use of University property or services in a manner inconsistent with their designated purpose.
26. Public Exposure - deliberately and publicly exposing one’s intimate body parts, public urination, defecation, and public
sex acts.
27. Violation of any student conduct code regulation while on disciplinary probation; or, failure to comply with any of the
restrictions, conditions, or terms of any sanction resulting from a previously held disciplinary hearing.
28. Violation of the Responsible Technology Use Policy.
29. Discriminatory behavior based upon race, color, religious creed, age, marital status, national origin, ancestry, sex,
gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, genetic information, veteran status, and any other
basis protected by law.
30. Students are required to engage in responsible social conduct that reflects credit upon the University community and to
model good citizenship in any community.
31. Violation of rules, regulations, or policies published in The Source, including but not limited to Residential Life policies.
32. Retaliatory behavior is prohibited. Any intimidating or threatening actions, harassment, making false statements about
another person in print or verbally with intent to harm theirreputation, or physical harm against an individual who is
a. reporting a violation of the Student Code of Conduct;
b. assisting someone with reporting a violation; or
c. participating in any manner in an investigation or resolution of a violation.
33. Violation of University publications, postings, agreements, or notices, where the violationin question is not otherwise
proscribed in this Article.
34. Any behavior which is prohibited by local ordinance or by state or federal law that also interferes with aims, purposes,
activities, and responsibilities of the University and isnot otherwise proscribed in this Article.
Violation of Law & the Student Conduct Process & University Student Organization Group Student Conduct Process
1. The University student conduct process may be instituted against a student whopotentially violated both the criminal law
and this Code of Conduct (that is, if both possible violations result from the same factual situation) without regard to the
pendency of civil or criminal litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution. Proceedings under this Code of Conduct
may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings off campus at the discretion of
the Dean of Students, or designee.
Determinations made or sanctions imposed under this Code of Conduct shall not be subject to change because criminal
charges arising out of the same facts giving rise to violation of University rules were dismissed, reduced, or resolved in
favor of or against the criminal law defendant.
2. When a student is charged by federal, state, or local authorities with a violation of law, the University will not request or
agree to special consideration for that individual because of his or her status as a student. The University will not provide
legal counsel to the student. If the alleged offense is also being processed under the Code of Conduct, the University may
advise off-campus authorities of the existence of the Code of Conduct and of how such matters are typically handled
within the University community. The University will attempt to cooperate with law enforcement and other agencies in the
enforcement of criminal law on campus and in the conditions imposed by criminal courts for the rehabilitation of student
violators (provided that the conditions do not conflict with campus rules or sanctions). Individual students and other
members of the University community, acting in their personal capacities, remain free to interact with governmental
representatives as they deem appropriate.
3. University Student Organization’s (including ‘Recognized,’ ‘Affiliated,’ ‘Greek-Lettered,’ ‘Student Fee-Funded
Organizations,’ and academic-affiliated student groups) internal or self-discipline procedures and the Student Conduct
Process:
Behavior subject to review under separate organizational discipline (i.e. Greek-Lettered Judicial Board review etc.) may be
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
subject to the student conduct process as described in Article VII. Such a determination is made by the Dean of Students or
designee.
Student organizations may be found responsible for violations when behaviors include but are not limited to those listed
below:
• The conduct is endorsed by the University Student Organization (USO) or any of its officers including, but not
limited to, active or passive consent or support, having prior knowledge that the conduct was likely to occur and
not taking any substantive action to prevent it (e.g., canceling the event, notifying the Office of Student Conduct
& Conflict Resolution, Public Safety or local police, etc.), or helping to plan, advertise, or promote the conduct;
• The conduct is committed during an activity paid for by the USO, or paid for as a result of one or more members
of the USO contributing personal funds in lieu of or in addition to organizational funds to support the activity or
conduct in question;
• The conduct occurred on property owned, controlled, rented, leased, or used by the USO or any of its members
for an organizational event;
• The purpose of the activity was related to initiation, admission into, affiliation with, or as a condition for
continued membership in the USO;
• Non‐members of the USO learned of the activity through members, advertisements, or communications
associated with the USO, or otherwise formed a reasonable belief that the conduct or activity was affiliated with
or endorsed by the USO;
• Members of the USO attempted to conceal the activity of other members who were involved; or
• One or more officer(s) of the USO had prior knowledge or reasonably should have known that the conduct would
take place.
It is important to note that when persons are functioning in the capacity of members of a USO, a USO and its leaders
(elected, appointed, or volunteer) may be held collectively and individually responsible for violations of the Student Code
of Conduct. USOs may be held accountable for violations without regard to whether members of such organizations are
individually held accountable for the same behavior.
A position of leadership in a USO entails responsibility. Student officers or leaders cannot knowingly plan, permit, condone,
or participate in any violation of the Code by the group/organization. In their role as a student leader, they have a
responsibility to act to prevent violations of the Student Code of Conduct, and at minimum to notify the appropriate
staff/advisor if they become aware of a potential violation of the Student Code of Conduct. Failure to do so could implicate
them in a Student Code of Conduct violation.
VII: STUDENT CONDUCT CODE PROCEDURES
A. Charges and Student Conduct Hearings
The following procedures relate to alleged violations of the Student Code of Conduct, except for those allegations involving
potential violations of the Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy.
1. Initiation of a Conduct Complaint
Any member of the University community may bring a conduct complaint against a student for behavior in violation of the
Student Code of Conduct by submitting a written complaint to the Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution, by using
University email. In order for the University to process a complaint, the complainant must submit a written incident report(s)
detailing the incident(s), including: (a) a narrative describing the incident(s), (b) all available information on the specific date,
time, and location which the alleged violation(s) occurred, and (c) the name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of
the complainant. Complainants are also encouraged to include the following in with their complaint whenever possible: a) any
written supportive documentation related to the complaint including authenticated written statements from identified
individuals with knowledge related to the complaint; b) the known names and any known contact information of parties
involved in the incident; c) a listing of the alleged behaviors prohibited by the Student Code of Conduct.
If the complaint involves alleged violation(s) of the University’s Policy on Sexual and Gender-Based Interpersonal Violence and
Harassment, complainants are encouraged to follow the complaint process found in the University’s Equal Opportunity,
Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy.
The complaint must be received within five (5) business days of the alleged violation(s) unless: the complaint involves unlawful
behavior that may jeopardize the safety of individuals, may affect a substantial University interest, involves behavior of a
continuing nature, involves behavior that has a continuing effect, or, calls into question the accused student’s suitability as a
member of the community. The Dean of Students, or designee, has the authority, at his or her sole discretion, to reasonably
extend the time limit. When a conduct complaint is submitted, the complainant(s) consent to release of both their identity and
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
written reports or summaries of written reports to the accused student and/or other individuals involved in investigation or
review of the complaint. Individuals involved in conduct complaint proceedings, including complainants and accused students,
are reminded that information introduced during conduct complaint proceedings may be subject to release as required by law,
in conjunction with related criminal or civil proceedings.
Communication Regarding Complaints: written notifications and communications regarding conduct complaints will generally
be made via University email, although notifications may also be made by hard copy correspondence delivered by hand to an
involved party’s address of record with the University, or by other reasonable means.
2. Review of a Conduct Complaint
When a written complaint is received within the prescribed timeframe, or within an approved timeframe extended by the Dean
of Students, or designee, an investigation and review of the complaint will be conducted to determine the applicability of cited
Student Code of Conduct Regulations and whether, based on the information submitted and/or obtained through investigation,
there is a reasonable basis for the complaint to be reviewed through the hearing process. The Dean of Students, or designee, at
his or her discretion, has the authority to modify or dismiss all or some of a complaint if he or she determines that: a) the
complaint has not been made within the proscribed timeline or an approved extended timeframe, or b) the Student Code of
Conduct Regulations cited are not applicable to the complaint made, or c) that there is not a reasonable basis for the complaint
to be reviewed based on the information provided or d) seek an alternate resolution process (i.e. guided/ facilitated
conversation) separate from the Student Conduct hearing process. Whenever a complaint is modified or dismissed, the Dean of
Students, or designee, will notify the complainant in writing. If the University determines that the complaint is not properly
filed, it will provide written notice to the complainant. The complainant(s) can request withdrawal of the complaint at any time.
The Dean of Students, or designee, however, has the authority to either continue the hearing process or dismiss the complaint
regardless of whether the complainant requests to withdraw their complaint.
3. Notification of Complaint & Scheduling
When a complaint is referred to the hearing process, the respondent shall be informed of the complaint and notified of a
scheduled hearing and hearing date. Notifications are generally sent to University email account(s). Confirmation of delivery by
the University’s email server will be considered the confirmed delivery date and time of notification when delivery is made via
University email. Once notified of the complaint, the respondent is expected to check University student email account at least
once each business day until the matter is resolved, including during vacation and summer periods. Conduct complaint
proceedings, including hearings, are scheduled at times designated at the discretion of the hearing officer and are based on
availability of staff. Scheduled meetings, hearings, and/ or conferences are generally scheduled around the posted class
schedule of the respondent and complainant. Requests to schedule around work, club, sport, or other schedules are generally
not approved.
4. Advisors
The respondent(s), complainant(s), and/or student witness(es) may have an advisor accompany them to any scheduled conduct
complaint proceeding. The advisor must not be licensed or trained in the field of law or a family member but shall be a current
full-time faculty or staff member of the University community and not otherwise involved in the incident, who agrees to serve
as an advisor to the respondent(s), complainant(s) and/or student witness(es). Anyone, however, may consult with a lawyer
outside the hearing procedures, at their own expense and on their own initiative.
An advisor’s presence at any conduct complaint proceeding is contingent upon following this procedure. Advisors may not: (a)
address any person involved in the hearing except for the student they are advising, or (b) disclose any student record
information obtained through the student conduct process except as permitted by law. Advisors who do not comply with these
requirements may be dismissed by the presiding administrator, required to immediately leave, and will not be allowed to
participate in future proceedings unless authorized by the Dean of Students. In the event an advisor is dismissed from a
scheduled proceeding, the proceeding will continue as scheduled. The student may request to have a different advisor, if
available, for the duration of the hearing as well as for any additionally scheduled proceedings. Hearings are not scheduled
around advisor availability.
5. Hearings
Hearings are administrative proceedings which are implemented to determine responsibility and devise appropriate
resolutions. There are Administrative Hearings and Student Conduct Board Hearings. Hearings follow an investigatory model, in
which:
a. involved student(s) are informed of how to access the Student Code ofConduct,
b. involved student(s) are provided information and can ask questions regarding how the pending allegations will be
reviewed, how information is communicated to involved parties, and availability of the appeal process.
c. hearing officer(s) review the complaint,
d. hearing officer(s) review and investigate the complaint with the respondent
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
e. hearing officer(s) request that the respondent respond to the complaint,
f. hearing officer(s) review and investigate the complaint with the complainant (in aboard
g. hearing)
h. hearing officer(s) investigate the complaint further with witnesses, involved parties, or others as deemed appropriate
by the hearing officer,
i. hearing officer(s) consider documentation, records, reports, authenticated written accounts; additional information
submitted by, or at the request of the involvedstudent(s) related to the complaint; any other relevant documents,
j. hearing officer(s) determine whether the accused student is responsible for one or more of the cited Student Code of
Conduct Regulations based upon a preponderance of the evidence (determined by “what a reasonable person
believes more likely than not tohave occurred based upon the available information reviewed”),
k. hearing officer(s) consider(s) information available and set(s) forth findings, andif applicable, sanctions.
Prior to the hearing, the student will be notified in writing that a complaint has been made and the Student Code of Conduct
Regulations alleged to have been violated. The date, time, and location of the hearing and the name of the presiding hearing
officer will also be provided in the notification. If a respondent fails to attend the hearing and the University has made a
reasonable attempt to notify the respondent decisions will be made, and resolutions determined, based upon available
information. Sanction(s), as deemed appropriate, will be assigned. The respondent will then be issued a written hearing
resolution notification.
Student Conduct Board Hearings are a special type of hearing which may be convened in extenuating circumstances deemed
warranted by the Dean of Students. At all Student Conduct Board Hearings, the community member who initiated the
complaint, or a designated member of Public Safety or Division of Student Success staff shall attendand present information
relative to the complaint made. When a case is referred to a Student Conduct Board Hearing, the Board will be comprised of
three professional staff and/or faculty members appointed by the Dean of Students or designee. The Dean of Students or
designee shall also appoint a fourth member to serve as nonvoting chair of the Board; this person will chair the hearing and
ensure that appropriate records are made.
6. Additional Hearing Guidelines:
i. The student will be provided written notice of the date, time, and location of a Hearing, delivered not less than two (2)
business days before the hearing, unless therespondent requests that the notification period be waived.
ii. All hearings shall be conducted in an informal manner, and technical rules of evidence will not apply. Statements of
information purported to be relevant to the complaintmay be considered at the discretion of the hearing officer(s). All
individuals providing such information are subject to be interviewed by the hearing officer.
iii. If requested in advance prior to the hearing and determined to be an appropriate and reasonable accommodation from
the Access Ability Director or the Assistant Vice President for Student Health and Wellness, notices, reports and/or written
materialswill be provided in an alternate format.
iv. All hearings will be held in closed session.
v. The respondent will have the opportunity to state whether he or she is “responsible” or “not responsible” for each
alleged violation of the Student Code of Conduct.
vi. The accounts of individuals, other than the respondent or complainant, who are presented as having relevant
information related to the complaint, may beconsidered by the hearing officer.
vii. The respondent and the complainant will be given the opportunity to present information from individuals purported to
have relevant information related to the complaint. The hearing officer will determine and weigh the relevancy of
information presented as part of their investigation of the complaint. Individuals providing information must be available
to answer questions directed by the Hearing Officeror Student Conduct Board during the hearing.
viii. Only the hearing officer may directly question the respondent, complainant or anyother individual involved in any
Hearing.
ix. The names of individuals asked to present information at a Student Conduct Board Hearing must be provided in writing to
the Chair a minimum of two business daysin advance of the hearing.
x. Supportive written documentation, data or information relevant to the hearingofficer(s) determination of responsibility
or recommendation of sanctions for violation of the Student Code of Conduct from a source who does not have direct
information related to the complaint including, but not limited to: a medical or mental health provider providing
unredacted supportive documentation, may, at the discretion of the hearing officer or Student Conduct Board Hearing
Chair, be presented provided that the information submitted is signed and notarized or signed and submitted in person
by the source to the hearing officer or Chair, submitted in a timely manner and with the agreement that the
documentation’s author/ source agrees to answer questions from the hearing officer or Chair.
xi. If the respondent does not attend a scheduled hearing, absence shall be noted without prejudice. The hearing shall
proceed at the discretion of the hearing officer or Student Conduct Board Hearing Chair; and, may be conducted in the
student’s absence. If a complainant does not attend a scheduled hearing, the hearing may proceed at the discretion of
the hearing officer or Student Conduct Board Hearing Chair and be conducted in the complainant’s absence. Reported
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
direct knowledge of incident(s) by the complainant may not be considered if the complainant is not present and available
to answer questions directed by the hearing officer or Student Conduct Board Hearing during the hearing.
xii. Hearings will be controlled in order to complete the review within a reasonable amount of time and to avoid needless
consumption of time and/ or repetition ofinformation.
xiii. During summer, vacation periods, and in extenuating circumstances as determined by the Director of Office of Student
Conduct & Conflict Resolution, the hearing officer may approve alternative arrangements for individuals to participate in
hearings including, but not limited to, the use of audio or video technology.
xiv. In cases where responsibility is acknowledged or determined, but prior to the determination of the sanction, the Student
Conduct Board Hearing, or hearing officer, may consider any written character references provided by the respondent.
xv. In cases where responsibility is acknowledged or determined, but prior to the determination of the sanction, the Student
Conduct Board Hearing, or hearing officer, may consider any provided written statement(s) of impact submitted bythe
complainant(s).
xvi. The respondent will receive written notice outlining the hearing resolution. Unless otherwise stated, notification will be
made via University student email. University officials with a legitimate educational interest, and/ or those who can be
legallynotified, may also be informed of all or part of the hearing outcome.
xvii. In situations involving both a respondent(s) (or organization) and a student(s) claiming to be the victim of another
student’s conduct, the records of the process and of the sanctions imposed, if any,shall be considered to be the
education records of both the respondent(s) and the student(s) claiming to be the victim because the educational career
and chances of success in the academic community of each may beimpacted.
xviii. All written accounts, records and/or supportive documentation presented at a Student Conduct Board Hearing must be
provided to the Executive Director of Student Conduct &Conflict Resolution no less than two business days prior to the
Student Conduct Board Hearing.
xix. The Dean of Students or designee may, at his or her discretion, approve alternative arrangements for parties to
participate in a Student Conduct Board Hearing from separate locations provided a reasonable mechanism is arranged
that allows for hearing and viewing information presented by both the complainant and the accused and allowsfor the
Student Conduct Board Hearing Chair to communicate directly with involved parties remotely.
xx. The respondent and complainant will be given the opportunity to respond to information presented at a Student Conduct
Board Hearing and make a closing statement prior to deliberation by the Student Conduct Board.
xxi. In a Student Conduct Board Hearing, any committee member may request to go into private session to discuss or decide
a matter. This request must be supported by a majority vote. The hearing can be recessed at any time by the chair. The
chair will ensure that all procedures are appropriately followed. Following a Student Conduct Board Hearing, decisions on
each allegation and any related sanction recommendations shall be made by majority vote. A tie vote will constitute a
vote of not responsible. The Chair cannot vote.
xxii. Student Conduct Board Hearing deliberations and decisions will be made in private. The Student Conduct Board Hearing
Chair will notify the Dean of Students of their determination of whether the respondent was responsible for each alleged
violation of the Student Code of Conduct. If there is a responsible finding, a recommendationofsanctions will be
forwarded to the Dean of Students.
B. Hearing Actions (Sanctions)
The disciplinary sanctions listed below may be imposed singly and/or in combination upon any student found in violation of
the Student Code of Conduct regulations set out in Article VII. The purpose of imposing sanctions includes: (a) to protect the
University community from behaviors that are detrimental to the educational environment, and (b) to assist students in
identifying acceptable parameters of their activities and consequences of future behaviors. The severity of the sanctions
imposed is intended to correspond with the severity or frequency of violation, as well as the student’s willingness to
recommit himself or herself to behavior in accordance with the Student Code of Conduct. Failure to complete any required
sanction by the due date will result in the imposition of more severe sanctions. Files are not released outside the University
without written consent of the student except as stated in the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 as
amended. The record of Expulsion and all other disciplinary sanctions imposed shall be on file through the Office of Student
Conduct & Conflict Resolution/Dean of Students Office. The student’s disciplinary file will be destroyed after seven years
from the date of the reported incident. A sanction of expulsion will be noted on a student’s transcript. In the event a student
with a sanction imposed upon them becomes inactive or no longer a registered student, disciplinary probation, residence hall
separation, and/ or disciplinary warning periods will be continued to completion upon any re-admission to the University.
Restrictions from facilities, restitution, and other assigned sanctions remain in effect.
1. Expulsion
Expulsion is permanent disciplinary separation from the University involving denial of all student privileges. Expulsion shall be
effective on the date stated in the notice. A student separated from the University by Expulsion may not enter University
premises, University- related premises, attend University sponsored activities or be present on campus without securing
prior approval from the Dean of Students or designee. A student expelled is not entitled to any financial refund for the
semester in progress. The Registrar's Office will insert the phrase, "NON-ACADEMIC EXPULSION," on the transcript original of
students who have been expelled from the University in accordance with the Student Code of Conduct.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
2. University Suspension
Suspension is a disciplinary separation from the University involving denial of all student privileges. Suspension shall be
effective on the date of notice of the suspension, or later if so stated in the notice; and shall prescribe the date and
conditions upon which the student may petition for readmission. No coursework will be permitted during the suspension.
Upon readmission to the University, the suspended student will be on Disciplinary Probation for the semester immediately
following this return. Conditions for readmission may include but are not limited to: Disciplinary Probation for a specified
length of time, no residence on campus, restricted visitation to specified University facilities, and/or written evaluative
statements from an accredited mental health professional, medical doctor or others to review the capability of the student
to function successfully at the University. Students separated from the University by Suspension may not enter University
premises, University-related premises, attend University-sponsored activities or be present on campus without securing
approval from the Dean of Students, or designee. A student suspended is not entitled to any financial refund for the
semester in progress.
3. Deferred University Suspension
The serious nature of the violation would normally result in the student’s suspension from the University, but given
extenuating circumstances, suspension is not immediately put into effect. A student found responsible for a violation of any
of the same policies while on Deferred University Suspension status will cause the suspension from the University for a
specified period of time to be put into effect. Allegations that such a violation has occurred shall be promptly presented at a
hearing, and the hearing authority shall determine whether such violation occurred and whether to impose the University
suspension. Violation of the conditions of the Deferred University Suspension status may also constitute an independent
violation the General Student Conduct Code Regulations and a further sanction, or sanctions, may be imposed in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Article VII.
4. Suspension or Permanent Removal (Expulsion) from Housing
A student may be suspended or permanently removed (expelled) from housing. Suspension is involuntary removal from
housing for a specific period of time. Expulsion is involuntary permanent removal from housing. Students suspended or
permanently removed from housing are usually banned from all residential areas.
5. Disciplinary Probation
A period of review and observation during which a student has been officially notified that his or her conduct is considered a
serious matter and subsequent violation of University rules, regulations, or policies could result in a more severe sanction,
including suspension or expulsion from the University. Disciplinary Probation is a status that may involve restrictions,
conditions, or terms imposed for a definite period of time not to exceed four full semesters. Restrictions, conditions, or terms
of probation may include, but are not limited to ineligibility to participate in University activities or events; required meetings
with a designated member of the University staff; restrictions on access to University facilities; and change or loss of housing
assignment. Restrictions, conditions, and terms will be imposed for a specific length of time not to exceed the length of
probationary period except in the case of change of housing assignment. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of
the probation, or additional behavior in violation of the Student Conduct Code Regulations during the probationary period,
will likely result in more serious disciplinary action. Notation of disciplinary probationary status will be on file through the
Student Conduct Office.
6. Residence Hall Restriction
Residence Hall Restriction involves removal from the University residence hall community for conduct which demonstrates
unwillingness or inability to abide by Student Conduct Code Regulations or to function appropriately in the residence hall
living situation. Such separation may be permanent or for a specified time period. Restriction prohibits entry or attempted
entry to all (or designated) residence halls, including lobbies and foyers. Visitation is not permitted. Residents restricted from
the residence hall are to contact their RD or the RD on Duty to make arrangements to remove personal belongings, return
keys and receive mail. A student separated or dismissed from University housing for disciplinary reasons is not entitled to any
refund of housing charges for the semester in progress.
7. Loss of Privileges—Restrictions & Bans
Restriction or Revocation of Privileges is a temporary or permanent loss of privileges as an alternative to another sanction, or
as a condition of a particular sanction resulting from a particular action found in violation of the Student Conduct Code. Such
action includes, but is not limited to:
a) use of a specific University facility;
b) banned from specified areas;
c) residence hall privileges;
d) holding or running for an office in a campus organization;
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
e) the representation of the University at any sporting event orintercollegiate function;
f) campus motor vehicle parking and operating privileges;
g) No Contact Order in which no contact with specific student(s) directly, byphone, electronically, via third party, or via
written communication
8. Disciplinary Warning
Disciplinary Warning involves written notice to the student indicating that specific behavior or activity is in violation of the
Code and that repetition of similar or other unsatisfactory behavior would likely result in more serious disciplinary action.
Notation of the warning will be on file through the Student Conduct Office.
9. Restitution
Restitution is a reimbursement for damage, destruction, required services or the unauthorized use or misappropriation of
University property or the property of any person which results from a conduct violation of this Code. It may also constitute
reimbursement to offset the cost of a required educational sanction. The administrative hearing officer or Student Conduct
Board Hearing will investigate and determine the amount of restitution charges.
10. Special Assignment
This may be a work project or special assignment imposed either as an alternative to another sanction or as a condition of a
particular sanction. An effort will be made to select an assignment that is appropriate to the offense and does not inhibit
academic progress or health. Special assignments may include but are not limited to community service restitution; written
reports; participation in co-curricular programs or counseling groups; and work in a specific campus office, building, or area.
Failure to complete a special assignment by the date set will result in the imposition of more severe sanctions.
11. Reprimand
A reprimand is an official rebuke making misconduct a matter of record in University files and indicating that repetition of
infractions of University regulations will result in more severe disciplinary actions.
12. Housing Selection Ineligibility
A student may not participate in the Residential Life Housing selection process but may reapply for housing before the next
academic year begins (usually in July).
13. Organizational-based sanctions:
• Those sanctions listed above
• Loss of selected rights and privileges for a specified period of time
• Deactivation. Loss of all privileges, including University recognition, for a specified period of time.
C. Interim Measures
In certain circumstances, the Dean of Students, or designee, may impose a University or residence hall suspension prior to
the commencement of the student conduct process.
1. Interim suspension may be imposed only: a) to ensure the safety and well-being of members of the University
community or preservation of University property; b) to ensure the student’s own physical or emotional safety and
well-being; or c) if the student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or interference with, the normal operations
of the University.
2. During the interim suspension, a student shall be denied access to the residence hallsand/ or to the campus
(including classes) and/or all other University activities or privileges for which the student might otherwise be
eligible, as the Dean of Students, or designee, may determine to be appropriate.
3. The interim suspension does not replace the regular student conduct process.
In certain circumstances, student-employment and/or student-athlete status may be impacted through interim or other
measures taken by supervisor/athletics separate from the Student Code of Conduct. Such status will not contradict or
undermine University policy, including the Student Code of Conduct.
D. Appeals
1. Eligibility, timeline, means, and grounds
a) Only the respondent shall be entitled to appeal the hearing resolution decision.
THE SOURCE 2025-2026
b) The appealing party shall submit an appeal to the Dean of Students, or designee, within five (5) calendar
days of the party’s receipt of the hearing resolution notification.
c) Appeals will be transmitted electronically via the self-service portal.
d) Appeals may only be submitted on the following grounds:
i. Toallege a material procedural error within the investigation and resolution process that would
substantially change the outcome; or
ii. Toconsider new evidence that was not known at the time of theinvestigation that would
substantially change the outcome (this appeal ground cannot be used if student did not attend the
scheduled hearing)
e) Appeals will not be considered on any other basis.
2. Upon timely receipt of the appeal letter, the Dean of Students, or designee, shall transmit the appeal letter and
associated hearing records to the Appeal Review Officer forreview.
3. Appeal Procedures
a) The Executive Director of the Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution (OSCCR), or designee, will
conduct an initial review to determine if the appeal request meets the limited grounds and is timely.
b) If the appealing party has presented a timely appeal on the basis of the groundsset forth above, the
Executive Director of OSCCR, or designee, will notify the complainant that an appeal has been made.
c) If deemed appropriate, the Executive Director of OSCCR, or designee, will share the appealwith the
complainant, who may file a written response.
d) If the appealing party has presented an appeal on the basis of the grounds set forth above, the Executive
Director of OSCCR, or designee, will further review the appeal and make a determination to uphold, reverse
or modify the Hearing Resolution. When deemed necessary, the Executive Director of OSCCR, or designee,
may seek additional information and/orrefer the matter back to the hearing officer, prior to making a
determination.
e) Following review of the appeal, the Executive Director of OSCCR, or designee, will issue a written decision to
the parties in which the decision may uphold, reverse or modify the original Hearing Resolution.
f) All appeal decisions are final.
ARTICLE VIII: INTERPRETATION AND REVISION
A. Any question of interpretation or application of the Code of Conduct shall be referred tothe Executive Director of Student
Conduct & Conflict Resolution, or designee, for final determination.
B. The Code of Conduct shall be reviewed annually under the direction of the Executive Director of Student Conduct, Conflict
Resolution & Compliance.
